<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/2uREZ73bt3g?si=k5IZQB5TgwxmWHMP" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## WHAT SEEMS TO BE IS ALWAYS BETTER THAN NOTHING.
-Mike + Ken, 1980.


<iframe allow="autoplay *; encrypted-media *;" frameborder="0" height="450" style="width:100%;max-width:660px;overflow:hidden;background:transparent;" sandbox="allow-forms allow-popups allow-same-origin allow-scripts allow-storage-access-by-user-activation allow-top-navigation-by-user-activation" src="https://embed.music.apple.com/us/playlist/points-downtown/pl.u-kExaTNYGgL"></iframe>

-----

There's a photograph of us all in the lobby of The Space Needle. You and I aren't standing anywhere near each other. We're guarding our own children: your two / my two, and we're wearing our own grimaces. A few hours before that picture got taken in that lobby, I gave a public reading at the Elliott Bay Bookstore in downtown Seattle. It would be the one and only time you and I would go to Seattle together and on purpose and not just to get either to or away from each other. At the reading I was nervous because it was a full room and I didn't know most of it like normal, only you and your kids and my kids and Matt Briggs and that really was it and Matt was very gracious but also very sweaty and after he introduced me and welcomed me to the podium, I got pretty nervous and found your face in the audience and my mind went completely fucking blank so I just kept looking at you and the only thing that raised its head in that moment was that opening, devastating lyric:

HE CAME FROM SOMEWHERE BACK IN HER LONG AGO.

I didn't know what else to do but sing the first three lines of "What A Fool Believes." I stopped and read some of my own bullshit out loud and staggered back to where all of you were sitting.

Particularly devastating in "What A Fool Believes" is Mike McDonald's little ad-lib at the very very end, with the song trailing into its own quiet, where the lead vocal goes completely 1st person:

I BELIEVE THAT SHE IS GOING AWAYYYYYYY HEYYYYYY HEYYYYYYY

Because if you've listened that long to the song, to its very end, that fucking song has you so fucking hard, it's not even remotely funny.

And if you look closer at the little drama Mike is narrating for you in this little ditty of doom, it's not a case of mistaken identity that's propelling all of the pity. It's her inattention to the details that would have made it all true in the first place, and Mike is reporting from some of the darkest territory a human being can try to report back from: the willful rejection + removal of someone from your life in such a way that they can't ever just reappear by accident and convince you of something that not only ISN'T true but NEVER WAS in the first place.

Which, of course, is just the absolute fucking worst, yo, believe.

WHAT SEEMS TO BE IS ALWAYS BETTER THAN NOTHING

But come on already. We kept secrets the entire time. You were really bad at it, honestly. Like that afternoon I watched you messaging your Alaskan boyfriend in Words For Friends just like I was messaging my Utah girlfriend in same, and you were cycling through pictures of yourself in sunglasses that you tested one at a time as your avatar in the app. The picture I remember watching you fiddle with the most before ultimately deciding not to keep it was a headshot of you on our wedding day, a close-up where you have your sunglasses on right before you had to take them off to get the ceremony started. You cropped and cropped and cropped and cropped and finally just gave up.
DEAD END, SORRY. THERE AREN'T ANY POINTS TO SCORE HERE SO JUST TURN AROUND AND HEAD BACK THE WAY YOU CAME OR JUST HOW ABOUT CALL IT GOOD HERE AND POWER DOWN LIKE YOU ALWAYS DO WHEN THE CONVERSATION GETS HARD AND YOUR EYES GET HEAVY AND 

ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ.

The last time I started at your face on purpose, it was still before THE BAG but not too much before. It was actually twice, that last time; the first time was totally an accident: popping open that massive blue tote of yours, the one with the thick black wheels attached and its capacity measured out on the lid in literal gallons: sliding out of its frame, that picture of the 6 of us all exhausted by each other and just totally sick of it already, because we never really ever could just BLEND.

And the second time? Totally on purpose. I couldn't handle it the first time, is why. I pushed the lid back over top of you and everything. That grimace on your face didn't match mine but maybe you pretended it did but you probably didn't.

The way you could make me feel completely INVISIBLE TO YOU just got old, baby.

And I completely cringe using that word with you, you know? BABY? I never did know who you were talking to when you used that word.

And I don't think I ever really wanted to.

---------------------
## YOU COULD BE INTO YOU BUT YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT YOU'RE LIKE.
-P.M. DAWN, 1995.
________

I’m pretty sure Luke Walker and I stopped being best friends even before we transferred to O’Leary when both of us really really really hoped our parents would still make a last-minute push to keep us tracked for Robert Stuart instead. O’Leary and Stuart were, at the time, Twin Falls’ only two middle schools. “Junior high” schools is what they were called in Idaho then, and TF’s two junior highs stuffed kids in grades 7-9 into them. Luke’s family had moved to TF when I was at Harrison and it was like the 5th grade and he was put in my class and we became friends instantly on the basketball court. Luke’s family was ridiculously two things: Irish and Catholic, which might actually not be two separate things. Luke’s dad worked for the U.S. Border Patrol and looked and acted the part. The first sleepovers at a house outside my family’s were at The Walkers’ place on Chase Drive, and I never ever had much trouble getting MFUP or even occasionally MMAB to take that quick right off Falls Ave and dump me off bright and early on a Saturday morning in their long sloping driveway like all the new-ish houses had in this neighborhood because local developers learned pretty quick what the Shoshone and Bannock have always known: winters on the Snake River Plain can be long and terrible and because the wind there is constant, any amount of snow that falls from the sky will always always always end up in a drift.

There’s a picture I have somewhere still, buried wherever among trinkets and whatnots that are literally scattered all over this fucking planet as I type this sentence. The picture is of Luke at Craters of the Moon National Monument and he’s making all of these ridiculous faces and gestures as we are burning out the last days of grade school with a field trip that all the 6th graders are promised the very first day they started Kindergarten: in 4th grade, we all got to visit the capitol building in Boise and ESTO our collective PERPETUAs through the rotunda there and take pictures with the cameras our parents may or may not have let us take with us. I remember most kids having cameras; pretty sure Luke did, too; Luke and I got one of his dad’s ladders out of the garage one Friday twilight when they lived on Waggoner near all those Fuchs kids and their pharmacist father, who were one of only a couple of the prominent and large Catholic families I would ever know in that town; yes, it was the Carey Act and Reclamation Act and Union-Pacific that technically built TF (“Just Add Water” was a centennial song/earsore that, well, has to be heard to truly be appreciated), but make no mistake: the LDS Church is the dominant influence in this part of the world; the Mormons were already out here and Brigham Young was already imposing his own brutalities when a train of orphans would arrive from Nauvoo, IL, after Joe and Hyrum are quite really thrown out of the top floor of the Carthage Jail for, well, some kind of understandable reasons (sorry, Gramma Rambo! Love you!); Luke and I used a Polaroid Instamatic to take snapshots of ourselves “dunking” a basketball—our common love for the game hit apex when Luke’s beloved Boston Celtics won two titles in 3 years and Larry Bird was absolutely and completely Luke’s favorite everything, especially his next-level talents for trash-talking; Luke and I took turns: one of us would climb the ladder and pause to consider what kind of pose to do; whomever wasn’t on the ladder was the one holding the Instamatic in one hand and Luke’s OUTSIDE ball (he had multiple basketballs; so did PLARD; PLARD only played with the leather ball on inside courts, as did Luke; rubber balls were for outside courts, which was the kind of basketball I had and I only had one but I took it to school all the time and Harrison only had outdoor basketball courts; I don’t remember whose camera it was—probably his mom’s, Lorraine (?) was her name, and she was always the one who picked us up from school and drove us back to their house with two other kids jammed in, too; Luke had two younger brothers and very much played the stereotypical big brother to both of them. I can’t remember the middle kid’s name but I want to say Simon but that’s not correct but he always reminded me of Simon from Alvin and the Chipmunks because that’s the one he got to role-play as after the cartoons were over and Luke, of course, always got to be Alvin; Luke’s youngest brother was named Toby and Luke was insanely jealous of Toby simply because he WAS the youngest and acted the part for his momma Lorraine, who seemed to absolutely worship everyone in her house and especially her husband, whose name was David now that I’m thinking more about them. David Walker. Because Luke was Luke David Walker. The Walkers were a lot more close as a family than any other family I’d seen before I started getting invited over after school. “I got a hoop at home,” he started saying on the courts at school, where we practiced our layups and built up our leg and arm strengths and prayed literal prayers for growth spurts in both that would never ever come for either of us. Luke was short, squat, and liked to talk shit; he also wasn’t originally from Idaho, nor were his parents, so when his father got transferred to TF and began working his job there, Luke had zero friends and knew zero kids; basketball was our common language and it’s not solely because of Luke that I’m a life-long Cs fan, but it’s pretty fucking close to something almost exactly like that.

The picture I’m talking about isn’t one of the Polaroids we’d snapped with the ladder carefully framed out, which of course, was the most important part; we didn’t care if the photos looked staged; Nike was rolling out Air Force 1s and Air Jordans for the very first time; CSI’s basketball team had a kid from the Bay Area in California, Erick Newman, who already had a contract with Adidas and everything because he was a two-sport althlete, playing basketball in junior college while also playing handball for the U.S. National Handball Team in 1985-1986. Luke and I either went to or listened to radio telecasts of every single CSI game; it was him who really got me loving not just to watch basketball but to talk about it, too; Luke’s father David, like mine, would watch a fair amount of sports on the weekends; David wasn’t a drinker, though, and alcohol wasn’t allowed in his house as far as I remember; Lorraine, too, was not a drinker, and there was zero cussing or yelling allowed as well. 

Remember: Border Patrol.

The picture I’m talking about isn’t even of Luke. It’s of a girl in our classes at Harrison who I had started walking home with that 6th grade year, Tammy G, who lived in the presidential streets between “my” new house on 8th Ave and Harrison Elementary which, of course, was and always will be on Harrison Street before you get to Falls Ave. Tammy was OG to Harrison and as fall as I could tell the neighborhood. Because our last names were close enough alphabetically, when we were in classes together, we’d often get sat together or paired up to correct math exams or quick-study for spelling tests. Tammy G was in my 6th grade class and before 6th grade had grown what seemed like a full foot; she was taller but still just as skinny; Tammy was the first girl I recall switching the button-latch pins us 80s kids stuck on everything but especially our coats and backpacks. Southern Idaho weather always seems to require both for school children, no matter the season, and Tammy had one of the most extensive collections of those button-latch style pins of anyone in school and not because she was some spoiled brat whose parents just gave her whatever she wanted; her home, which I never went in, was just another house on the block and her parents kept the walkway neat and I would still be standing on the broken sidewalk where the trees were always older than the walkways so when the trees would stretch out their limbs and roots, frost heaves gave way to full upheavals of concrete and crumbling asphalt; I would stand there at the base of the Grays’ walkway and wave at Tammy as she pulled the screen door back and disappeared behind it. 

As the weather got warmer that last spring I attended Harrison, it became clearer and clearer to me that almost all of the kids I’d known since I was 5 wouldn’t be at O’Leary in a matter of months, and I would only know a few. Luke’s family had also moved recently but that wasn’t abnormal for them at all; if memory serves correctly, the Walkers had arrived in Idaho after David’s last stint in like Arizona or New Mexico or maybe it was Montana or Minnesota, I can’t fucking remember; all I remember was thinking: where’s the border? Idaho borders Canada on the north, but the northern and southern borders of Idaho are the better sum of a 1,000 miles apart; if you have never compared Idaho’s geographical size to that of other states, you’ll quickly notice it’s almost certainly the most sparsely populated place in the USA, top to bottom. 

That spring, then, Tammy G and I started walking TO + FROM school together. We never held hands. We certainly never touched each other in those ways. But Tammy Gray was the first girl I knew who swapped out all her Michael Jackson pin-back buttons—-and I LOVED MJ and she KNEW IT from way back—for Prince ones. The first time I heard the word masturbation from one of my friends was when Tammy Gray explained it to me on that broken sidewalk; she’d just got a cassette copy of Prince’s PURPLE RAIN and, of course, “Darling Nikki” was the track she used to explain more specifically how someone biologically equipped like Nikki might use a magazine to get off. Tammy seemed to completely understand; me, I have to admit that I completely didn’t. For the longest time and even though I was pummeled with recordings and still images of hardcore porn my entire childhood, I really had no idea how girls and women derived any kind of pleasure from sex; all the depictions I’d ever seen of it—and MMAB’s largely disavowal of it in the ways she both talked and held space with MFUP—looked and read as rehearsed and staged and completely fake. When I saw women and men in all their various combinations growing up, what I saw was acting; none of it felt titillating to me and still largely doesn’t. KLD ruined porn for me, I guess you could say, by making me act it out and so when shit went down with him, I’d often get one of his own father’s copies of OUI and HUSTLER; very very rarely was it anything tamer like a PENTHOUSE or, even rarer, a PLAYBOY, and back in this era, virtually every household I knew had a little stack of some sort of skin mag somewhere; a lot of times I would see them piled up on the lids of the big water tanks that ran all the toilets, especially where MFUP and KLD’s father both worked; calendar girls sans their calendars and clothes don’t really provide much educational value when it comes to anything other than ogling the merchandise, and because I worked in a car dealership, you can imagine both the images and conversations I saw, overheard, and, yes, participated in.

Following my programming.

In one version of this memory, it’s that Tammy G signaled to me that day on the sidewalk that she wanted me to fuck her. That’s what someone else told me later. I still don’t know what to think of that moment. I was frozen by it, because I genuinely had zero idea what to do if a girl was actually and for real genuinely ATTRACTED to me; I knew that I was attracted to girls from a very early age, but ironically porn doesn’t activate in me the way it’s supposed to. When I had to flip through the sticky pages, it was more like trying to build something out of LEGO or one of those infernal IKEA instruction booklets; I knew if I got it right, it would end sooner, and by the time we were towards the end of our “affairs” together, I have to say: I was pretty damn good at getting the kid off within 90 seconds, thank you very much. [wipes mouth]

No, I seriously doubt Tammy G wanted me to do anything to her that day or any day. That was before this picture I keep talking about, too; Tammy started getting into Prince the same year as everyone else: 1984, when everyone else was already filled to the brim with MJ. Prince’s music is, of course, far far superior, but MJ was still little Michael Jackson of the Jackson 5 who’d grown up to become the single biggest pop star since Elvis shit himself to death on a golden toilet only a few years prior to all this anyway.

The Craters trip for 6th graders almost always happened the last week of school. I want to say our trip was on a Tuesday, so I’m going to: It was early on a Tuesday morning we piled into a yellow school bus just like the ones that dropped off the other kids who had to ride them to Harrison every single day. The teachers told all of us it might be cold when we arrive there and also on the bus so make sure you brought your coats and if you didn’t there probably isn’t time to call your mom to bring it to you before we leave, and she’s not going/supposed to meet us later to give it to you anyway so you’d better make sure to remember your coats, they all said to us as we left the classroom at 3:10 PM just the day prior. Tammy has a ski jacket on. It’s mostly this blue-teal but it has those wide paneled striped across it like the old Land Rovers and Toyota SR5s used to have back then, too. I took the photo at a fair amount of distance; I’d actually been trying to get away from Luke long enough to snap at least one clear photo of Tammy, just so I could have a picture of her that wasn’t staged and taken by someone else way way back during the first weeks of school when all the other 6th graders won’t even be close to being done with their whole morphing into middle schoolers thing until they are well past middle school, if ever at all.

----------
## BETWEEN THE HORSES OF LOVE + LUST WE ARE TRAMPLED UNDERFOOT.
###### -DEPECHE MODE, 2012.
_______

It was the trains that brought them all, really. Way after the conestoga wagons and mule trains and constant hike-walking. It was the trains that picked them up one place and simply dropped them off another. Take an 8 am stroll along Main Street in a place like Canby, OR and you might even be able to imagine it, walking those first full steps in your own legs and your own feet, not so much taking you anywhere as pulling you there, literal inches at a time, into the next whatever your life would or could be. A lot of the people who took the trains out west to places like Canby in OR and Boise in ID were the same kind of people who'd always had to catch rides places instead of being able to drive themselves. In other words, WORKING people. 

Look, I have a lot of bitches against a place called Idaho, and I fucking dare anyone to step into a real conversation with me about it who's intent on selling me something that could never ever exist for someone like me. 

And what do I mean, SOMEONE LIKE ME?

That's simple. An orphan.

That's a heavy word to use for someone whose parents aren't only still alive but still married to each other, at that. Like they were the same things, I suppose, marriage and death; that seems much more honest than equating marriage and life, I've always thought. Or at least that's what I tell myself now that it's December of 2025 and all fall of this year I've been feeling the flashbacks of 2010, and not so much revisiting or even questioning as letting myself feel some feelings I haven't allowed myself to feel, namely that daydreamy haze of a love affair in fall months when the leaves are rattling before turning and ultimately falling and becoming what the end of a terrible time always feels like: cold and mushy at best, like the swollen banks of a thin young river that only started finding its way within the last 50-60 years because of some dams way way way upstream from anywhere near. Driving the backrounds through eastern Multnomah and Clackamas counties this fall, brilliant layers of light and color and heat and wind and but also the emptiness all around me as I drove always by myself and always with no particular place to go. 

When I got to Springville Road and saw the semis and trailers all rounded up and ready for the big November shipments of Christmas trees with all points east, the crazy reality is the same trains that brought working people all the way out to places like ID, OR, WA, UT, WY, MT, NV, CA, AZ, NM, CO, those same trains carried trees back east in the exact opposite direction. 

A fair trade. But super unclear for whom.

If you're an orphan and you're on a train, what difference does it really ever make where it stops and pries you off?
