<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/iTVAjVItX_U?si=yPtFW_oo6saZ90uv" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## WHAT SEEMS TO BE IS ALWAYS BETTER THAN NOTHING.
-MIKE + KEN, 1980.

<iframe allow="autoplay *; encrypted-media *;" frameborder="0" height="450" style="width:100%;max-width:660px;overflow:hidden;background:transparent;" sandbox="allow-forms allow-popups allow-same-origin allow-scripts allow-storage-access-by-user-activation allow-top-navigation-by-user-activation" src="https://embed.music.apple.com/us/playlist/points-military-base/pl.u-W2zPTx0mbq"></iframe>

--------

It was that second night and you couldn't believe we could really go out for dinner. 

"Like, GO out, go out??" I still remember you arching your back when you said it. We weren't getting dressed yet.

"Well, yeah," I said. "Aren't you sick of being stuck in here anyway?"

"No," you lied. "Are you sure? What if someone sees us? You know, OUT?"

"Out WHERE? The fucking BUFFALO WILD WINGS??"

And so you pulled those same jeans back on you'd just peeled off and left heaped between the toilet and the shower. The ass of them had sat too long there and soaked up some of the water from wherever the water was from. Which totally didn't matter because you looked like you'd peed your pants but I just never told you, in case we had to get out of there real quick.

You never know who might see you, you know. Or when HIS TEXTS would ever stop. Or what haircut drama was brewing on whatever weeknight back in THE 208.

-------

## I’D JUST ALLOW A FRAGMENT OF YOUR LIFE TO WANDER FREE.
-SIR ELTON, 1974.

----------

It’s the last week of April in 2020 as I’m typing this. The USA has lost its springtime and good parts of its body and mind to COVID-19. Also as I’m typing this, right now I’m about 57% sure I contracted the virus the last time I traveled on an airplane, the first week of February, before the phrase “social distancing” became part of our regular vocabularies. We all have stories to tell about how we are dealing and feeling with things right now; what I feel and how I deal is not unique. What I’m concerned about right now most is when I will get to see my parents again, who are living a couple of hours away from me but still relatively close by. They are both in their 70s. My mother has diabetes and an autoimmune condition to boot; my father has glaucoma and has limited vision. They have always been active people. They have been married my entire life, and were even so before I was born. I love them and am afraid for them. I know they feel the same way about me. This part of the project, it’s not about them, not really about me either. It’s about this moment we are suffering, and how stay-at-home orders have locked down over 90% of the US population.

But more to the point: this part of the project is about the quiet, dark suffering that’s surely happening behind the collective closed doors of Everywhere. Drinking and drug use and depression and suicide are all on the rise. So is domestic violence.

And so is incest.

Sorry to split hairs when it comes to sexual assault, but there are different flavors of rape in Rape Culture. This isn’t news to anyone familiar with the subject or territory. Sexual assault doesn’t even have to involve rape to be considered sexual assault. Neither does incest. Last week I binge-watched David Letterman’s brilliant Netflix interview show, _My Next Guest Needs No Introduction_. Hearing Jay-Z talk so honestly and humbly about infidelity moved me greatly, as did listening to Kanye West describe to the best of his ability what it’s like to 1) have to be bipolar and 2) have to be _Ye_ having to be bipolar. But by far and away the most powerful interview I watched was with Ellen Degeneres, who in an impromptu moment with her friend and peer Mr. Letterman in front of a live audience told a story she had never told publicly before, in which she was molested by her stepfather and for 18 years her mother didn’t believe her.

I am one of the lucky ones. My mother instantly believed me when I told her I had been molested. Before I could make myself say the names of the family members who did it, she interjected names of her own, angrily guessing some pretty decent guesses. Her own stepfather was the first name she blurted out. Her own father was the second. Again, these were decent guesses, and it’s interesting to me to think now about how she immediately went to her own side of the family, to her own home environments and atomic/broken family dynamics. But she was incorrect in her guesses. My father also instantly believed me when I told both of them, at the exact same time, in the backyard of their home on 8th Avenue in Twin Falls, ID. My wife M was with me. I had told her about the abuse several years prior, when our relationship started getting serious and started trending towards becoming physically intimate, and I named the names. I was 15 years old when I told her, and she was the very first person I ever told. Like Ye, M too lives with bipolar depression. It would take us over 20 years to discover this diagnosis, and it came too late into our marriage for us to make any honest attempts to save it.

My father, though, unlike my mother, ventured no guesses and blurted out no names. I don’t at all believe that he ever knew about the abuse I suffered. My father is a complex person, like all fathers are, but he is simply not the Make Others Suffer kind. I do, however, believe he was far from surprised when I named his only nephew and his only brother-in-law as the two people who had molested me. That nephew — my cousin — would eventually stand trial for molesting his then-wife’s niece, then a 12-year old girl, and he was ultimately convicted of the crimes he committed against her. As is far too often the case with “first-time” offenders, especially in stick-your-head-in-sand-about-it states like Idaho, my cousin served no real time, was let out almost immediately on a work release program, and has since settled into a quiet life of living in our grandparents’ home, which he inherited several years ago and in which he continues to hold court as far as I know.

In this momentary pause the coronavirus pandemic has brought, here in the state of Oregon, Governor Kate Brown’s mandate is officially titled STAY HOME, SAVE LIVES. In all caps and everything. The rhetorician in me has problems with this mandate; my academic training tells me there needs to be a third statement in there somewhere, for it to function as a solid syllogism. This mandate, it sounds as if it has two parts, teasing me into thinking the things the academic in me has been trained to think: 1) STAY HOME. 2) SAVE LIVES. These aren’t separate statements, though. They are one statement, and it is hinged by a comma. And yes, I know your eyes are probably glazing a little bit to a lot right now, and if you know me personally at all, they definitely are doing that. _Here he goes again,_ you’re thinking if you’re in that camp. Then again, if you’re in that camp, you’re not only used to it, you at some level embrace it. To the rest of you reading this for whatever reasons you’re reading it, I am sincerely sorry. Kind of.

STAY HOME, SAVE LIVES. This is a singular statement. This is not a syllogism. This is not a dress rehearsal, either. And this is most certainly not a test.

When I was in the second grade, I was diagnosed with hepatitis. I contracted it at the daycare center I attended every weekday, both before and after school. In the summertimes up until I turned 12, I spent 8–10 hours every weekday there as well. When I started dating M, I discovered she and I had attended the same center at the same time, but we didn’t know each other nor remember each other because she and her kid brother didn’t spend nearly as much time there as I did. The first time I can remember having my blood drawn, it was in a public health clinic where I was being tested for hepatitis because I had developed symptoms and also because I had been going to the daycare center I had been going to. My results came back positive, and I was immediately quarantined from school. It was devastating to me on a number of levels. I loved school and everything about it, not just my social life. My parents couldn’t afford to take off time from their jobs, so I was sent to live in makeshift quarantine with my paternal grandparents. My grandmother was a waitress at the infamous greasy spoon on the south end of Twin Falls called the Depot Grill, and my grandfather was a long-haul truck driver. They too couldn’t afford to take time off from their jobs, but my grandmother’s schedule involved a lot of evening shifts, and my aunt and uncle lived close enough to my grandparents’ house that they could pitch in. And it wasn’t as if I didn’t see my parents at all; quite the contrary: most evenings my father stopped by to check in on me after he was done working, and my mother came over during her lunch hours. I spent the better part of three weeks totally confined to my grandparents’ house, and the overwhelming majority of that time I was watching morning programming for children on my grandparents’ long and wide Curtis Mathes television armoire that also boasted an AM tuner, a turntable, and a 8-track cassette player, all built into the oak veneered cabinet that ran the full length of the half-wall of their living room. I remember watching my morning rotation of shows but I’m having a lot of trouble right now remembering what shows I actually watched. Inspector Gadget I think was one of them. Pretty much whatever was on Nickelodeon, which was almost brand-new at the time if I’m not mistaken.

And I remember having that morning rotation of kids’ programming spiked by coverage of John Hinckley’s attempted assassination of President Reagan. Like most kids during that first term of his presidency, I loved Ronald Reagan. Up until the point, of course, that I didn’t. I can remember Tom Brokaw and John Chancellor and Peter Jennings and Ted Koppel all nervously narrating the details, especially the part about how Hinckley was mentally disturbed and wanted to grab the attention of Jodie Foster and but so walked right up to the presidential entourage, opened fire with a .22 caliber weapon, and nearly made George H.W. Bush president 7 years ahead of schedule.

I said a few paragraphs ago that this part of the project isn’t about my experience or my story. And it’s not. I belabor the part about my personal quarantine with hepatitis to tell you something that I’m quite certain most of us already know but aren’t willing to discuss right now in our pandemic moment, wherein yet another vaudevillian president is performing grotesque puppet shows on a daily (if not hourly) basis because, frankly, we could all use a major fucking distraction from it all, if not a convenient scapegoat to blame for it in the first place.

STAY HOME, SAVE LIVES. This is a singular statement. It assumes an awful lot, though. And it gives cover to a lot that’s awful.

I grew up in Twin Falls, Idaho, which is certainly not the birthplace or global HQ for abuse, neglect, and domestic violence. A few weeks ago, the community of Twin Falls openly flirted with the idea of holding Easter services in municipal parks; at the time, Blaine County, which is just a short, 40-minute drive north from Twin Falls, reigned as having the most cases of COVID-19 per capita of anywhere else in the entire country. In places like where I grew up, ignorance isn’t just routine; it’s pretty much a religion. At exactly the same time Blaine County was making national headlines as the most infected area in the entire US of A, I was sparring with my latest ex-wife WL about timelines and delays in our newly-minted divorce. In the long-time-coming collapse of our rickety and insane marriage last year, WL furiously pulled up stakes last June and moved back to Twin Falls, where she had always lived her entire life save for the thin 6 years we were married and living here in Portland together, and in our text exchanges I could see that age-old saying made true: _You Can A Girl Out Of Idaho, But You Can’t Take Idaho Out Of A Girl_. In one of the more ugly exchanges, Wendy made a scatological, sarcastic comparison between our conversation and how the quarantine was affording her more than ample time to hoard toilet paper for “when the coronavirus comes to Idaho,” as if she and everyone she knows/knew there would be somehow made immune through redeploying such cosmic ignorance by means of her freshly-rediscovered Prepper-ism. As of date that I’m typing this, it’s April 28. WL’s birthday was last week, as was one of our stupid anniversaries we felt we had to keep dragging into the present-tense every year, the one where we went on a Mexican cruise and she helped celebrate the occasion by telling me barely two hours after we’d said “I Do” that she’d lied about the better part of a year, right before we’d collided again, that she’d spent fucking and sucking off her across-the-street neighbor. Apparently, she felt a wedding cruise in the Mexican Riveria was the proverbial “best time” to tell me something like that. But, as usual, I digress.

STAY HOME, SAVE LIVES. That’s Oregon’s official mandate. You know what the same stay-at-home order is called in Idaho, as executed by Dave Jeppesen, Director of Idaho Department of Health and Welfare?

ORDER TO SELF-ISOLATE.

I’m not going to pretend every state in the country doesn’t have a major problem with childhood sexual abuse, let alone every country on the planet. But when a sitting president is opening his mouth in front of livestreaming cameras and microphones to openly implore medical professionals and researchers to “study” the possibilities of injecting live, human bodies with household disinfectants as a possible “treatment” for the novel coronavirus of 2019–2020, well, needless to say we are in some desperate fucking times.

And make no mistake that these times are indeed desperate. Absenteeism in schools around the world isn’t just an academic or socialization issue for the planet’s young people. Public schools do far more than educate children; they are very often the single source of health and sanity a child has. When I was quarantined during my bout with hepatitis, I had no reprieve from the dynamics of my extended paternal family, dynamics which included — and played apologist to — extreme, patterned, prolonged, deliberate acts of sexual assault. I can’t tell you with any certainty that I was physically assaulted during my quarantine; my memory up until my teen years is much like a skipping record, or, a better description, like the kinds of magnetic tape rolled carefully into containers like the hundreds of 8-tracks and cassettes I listened to for much of my first 20 years on the planet. My memory is like magnetic tape in that if you’ve ever used it to record something and then recording something else over the top of what you previously recorded, what’s underneath bleeds through. You can’t completely make out what’s underneath, but nevertheless you know it’s there.

What I _can_ tell you with absolute certainty about that timeframe is that I was still being groomed, regardless of whether or not any definable incidents were happening. This is one of the many ways incest in particular works and perpetuates itself. You don’t have to have your cousin every day smear a billiards cue with Vaseline and repeatedly ram it inside you until you are beyond numbed by that kind of arrowing to feel constantly like the mark you are. (Just trust me on this part. I know it as well as I know anything now, ever have, or ever will. That kind of numb, it doesn’t wear off. Ever. The feeling, in other words, it doesn’t come back the way, say, it comes back when your foot or hand falls asleep when you pinch a nerve. Incest isn’t akin to a pinched nerve or a bruise or a blemish; it’s more akin to having every nerve in you soaked in napalm and then simultaneously and deliberately set on fire, and then, probably the worst part of all, having someone you are supposed to love and is supposed to love you back command, browbeat, or shame you into not flinching or wincing for even a picosecond because of it.)

There are children all over the country and all over the world today who already know exactly what I’m talking about, how the mandates to STAY HOME, SAVE LIVES + SELF-ISOLATE have made their daily and hourly routines beyond the stuff of nightmares. And for those who don’t yet have the awareness — let alone the language necessary — to know just how damaging their own homes are in moments like this, the unfortunate and brutal truth is they will. Firearm and alcohol sales are skyrocketing right now, even in places like Oregon and Idaho, where such commerce and access to such marketplaces are not just fiercely guarded, but quite really revered as inherent and unalienable rights.

When is the right time to talk about this, by the way? That we are being told to stay home and save lives and self-isolate, but the very acts of doing those things means we are going to lose entire families to more than just the source of a novel coronavirus. Science and medical technologies of the present tease us with the highly uncertain, and only theoretically potential future that we will develop successful treatments for COVID-19, and that gods willing there will be a vaccine and even a cure, and I believe this will happen sooner than later. Not 2020 sooner, maybe like 2021 or 2022 sooner. And we will learn a lot about this thing, this novel coronavirus, that won’t make it novel to us. The vast majority of us on the planet will survive this moment, and we will rightfully mourn those who do not, and we will adjust accordingly in our species’ evolution-on-metamphetamines response. This feels beyond a given to me.

But what about our plagues that _aren’t_ novel? I ultimately refuse to call incest a disease, but it has some of the worst qualities of one. We are told over and over again on the daily to socially distance, that it will help keep the spread of the novel plague, COVID-19, to the best minimums we can muster at the moment, that staying home and self-isolating is the best treatment and best way to save lives. Please forgive me if it feels like I’m trying to advocate a different set of priorities in this terrible, global moment. I don’t think I’m doing that, or, at least, I know I’m not doing it on purpose. I’m not asking anyone to choose which plague to fight. Our species is easily the most self-interested, self-absorbed lifeform of our known world(s). We can and should and do fight all of the plagues all of the time; we have to, in order to survive.

When I was in kindergarten, I contracted chicken pox. A good 20+ years before children in the USA were given vaccines for it as routine, by the way. When I got chicken pox, I had a severe enough case that the disease was visibly present on my skin, and so much so that it was quite literally obvious I could not attend public school. I spent a good amount spent time out of school, again at my grandparents’ house. I spent hours and hours in their living room, watching “educational” programming on that Curtis Mathes unit, and when my grandmother cleaned the house every single day, sometimes she would turn the TV off and play a Glen Campbell greatest hits compilation on its 8-track. She would tell me years later, in a somewhat awkward moment of rare honesty, that she fantasized about Glen Campbell and thought he was “sexy,” and by the time she told me that, I already had way more than just a scant notion of what she meant by that and what she might do if quarantined with him. And I wasn’t probably much older than 7 or 8 years old when she did.

Humanity is going to survive COVID-19. Just like I survived chicken pox and hepatitis and two failed marriages and cancer and probably COVID-19 itself, just like I survived being my cousin’s blow-up doll for the first decade of my existence on the planet. It will be May in a matter of days, and then it will be June and at this time next year it will be April all over again. We will know way more about COVID-19 in 2021, that’s for certain. Don’t we already know more than enough, though, about how for many children, couples, and families, their homes are the furthest fucking thing they might imagine from being safe?

I know I do.

April 2020 
UnHappy Valley, OR.