

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/2wG1BnwFfjU?si=pSgsR_jbBreZ_wcn" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>


## THE FELIX OF YOUR TRUTH WILL ALWAYS BREAK IT / AND THE IRIS OF YOUR EYE, ALWAYS SHAKE IT
AND THE ARMIES, THE ARMIES I HAVE CREATED / WILL ALWAYS HATE IT, ALWAYS BAIT YOU ON.
-LIVE, 1994.

<iframe allow="autoplay *; encrypted-media *; fullscreen *; clipboard-write" frameborder="0" height="450" style="width:100%;max-width:660px;overflow:hidden;border-radius:10px;" sandbox="allow-forms allow-popups allow-same-origin allow-scripts allow-storage-access-by-user-activation allow-top-navigation-by-user-activation" src="https://embed.music.apple.com/us/playlist/points-prison/pl.u-2v1aIlXYKa"></iframe>
--------

I remember, it definitely surprised me how quickly she packed up that entire house, kids/animals/me and how that really was the turning point, us leasing the OC house on an option to buy, entering discussions to buy, destroying all discussions to buy, fleeing to a place called Happy Valley that was neither happy nor in a valley so much as grudgingly aground. But that’s getting ahead of things. And truly stories for and from another time.

But it didn’t start that way. It started with cleaner slates, kind of. It started when I found the house in the first place and WL overnighted a deposit in the second place and in April 2012 we really were engaged to be married and we really were going to live together and I quickly dubbed that place in OC “The Canopy” and I even more quickly felt myself becoming a super poor version of Mister Brady; in that fiction called THE BRADY BUNCH, each parent arrives with an equal number of children and an equally fictional fiction about the equality and sameness of their respective and unique traumas. In other words, Mike and Carol Brady were always built to spill, to borrow a phrase from a childhood friend; the Bradys weren’t just cursed because Greg stroked and fellated a piece of coral on Oahu near Pearl Harbor; the Bradys weren’t just cursed, they were fucking DOOMED. 

WL had gone totally tits up in the medical practice she owned by legal technicalities that would see her make her give it all up the very same year we kind of got married, summer of 2012. I say kind of because she purposely didn’t send the marriage certificate back to the courthouse in Jerome, ID where Diana P from the Title Company had sold me the rights to call WL my legal wife. WL didn’t send that document back until the county contacted her and threatened to invalidate the marriage; I didn’t find this out until, well, guess when. And we never ever did have a full conversation about WHY it took nearly two years for her to do that. We never ever did because we never ever needed to because it was so very very fucking obvious but I so very very much didn’t fucking care. WL’s medical practice was proving to be unmanageable for a number of reasons, not the least of which was our relationship; when we got back together—for the second time, mind you—in July of 2011, the plan was for both of us to finalize our divorces that summer and go into the fall still living at distance while we each built out from what were incredibly difficult cleavings and both of us stumbled in and out of affections and obligations with/for our exes and even ourselves; in February 2011 we took a long weekend to spend in SLC visiting her father as he underwent treatment for his cancer at Huntsman, where some of the best specialists in the world work real miracles every single day. WL’s father lived a double life his entire life, serving briefly some military service (Korea?) and maintaining affairs he’d begun that lasted the rest of some of their lives. He was educated in accounting at BYU’s main campus in Provo, and WL told stories all the time of traveling to/from northern Utah all the time with her parents to visit extended family and attend BYU football games when Jim McMahon was quarterback and then Steve Young right behind him. How much WL ever really knew about sports was because her father was, yes, your completely stereotypical self-hating closeted and bearding gay man whose secrets were leaking out and ceasing to remain secrets because of the seriousness of his condition. WL knew her father had a boyfriend in Canada because she was in the house when it all hit the fan, but because she was an only child and the parents were performing, every single fucking thing in that household flowed through her like electricity coming in from the overhead poles right outside Candy Cane Park there, off Alturas Drive. She told me the first time I picked her up at her own house on El Monte that she’d taken a too-fast turn in the winter time off Alturas and hit a fat pole or streetlight or something big and firm enough to scrunch up her father’s old Subaru Justy and give her an untreated case of whiplash that I could literally feel still grinding the top veterbrae in her back into gristle and dust those last times I held her head between my hands. 

Alturas Drive was a long way away from Madison Street. Galaxies, it turned out.

That spring, about a month after we’d signed the lease I moved all my shit over from the one bedroom “we” had in Hillsboro—that sweaty, Going Through/Just Gone Through/Forever Paying Alimony Divorced Dad one bedroom joint that is exactly as described. I’d moved into one myself, December 2010, two very walkable blocks away from the house I’d been living in and also renting with my then-wife and our three children, who very quickly became caught in all kinds of micro and macro drama that will take multiple lifetimes to even begin to understand the totality of how much bullshit the adult world can make you wade through as a young person, no matter who you are. No matter who your parents are, either. I’m not trying to disavow or downplay the damage I did, continue to do probably; my “owning it” doesn’t make up for the pain and years of time lost to more of the same, both past and ongoing forever into the forever. That house in OC took my breath away, the views its owner and builder and schemer Obie had created right off the first big rise of the riverbank, hovering above the literal End Of The Oregon Trail. Like yards from it, I’m not kidding or exaggerating. Obie built a treehouse at the downward turn of economy in those GWBush years that hit Portland and Oregon overall particularly hard and unemployment went into double digits, including the job my wife had moved all of us—selling a house and everything—in Boise to even get here. We never had the chance to recover and reestablish as owners in Portland. We’d divorce the stereotypical ugly divorce, complete with major health revelations, job loss, suicide attempts, hospitalizations, insane affairs, airport and bathroom sex, the whole shebang. By the time we were all really living together in OC, though, all that shit was largely calming down and we were waking up every day in a totally new reality that we’d concocted from literally thin air.

But first, there was Mexico. And the Mexico That Very Very Nearly Never Was. Not to mention The Mexico That MOST DEFINITELY WAS, the hostage crisis I made of myself at 3 am and only the moonlight atop that back high balcony just off the Promende Deck or whatever. Just me and my heart destroyed from the days’ ruinings which were so very very many. A tequila tour. A wedding. Sun stroke. Alone after the buffet closed and the food was getting thrown overboard soon enough anyway so they let us make sandwiches and that’s when she told me—THAT—was the moment she chose to tell me her across the street neighbor and her had been having a similar enough affair to ours and that she’d lied about it when I’d asked about him nearly two calendar years later and but now we’re engaged to be married? And I just improvved a quasi-legal ceremony that declared at least myself a married man but maybe she never would be a married woman ever again? 

The tension was terrible all evening. Dinner we barely spoke. And because we were cruising with my parents, there was never going to be any real opportunity for us to have a real conversation about any of it. And because I thought I knew WL well enough by that point, I knew she’d done it all on purpose. Keeping the secret. Which, of course, was hers to keep as long as she didn’t want to keep it. So…yeah…why she chose to give up the secret that wasn’t a secret to anyone but herself and maybe the dude across the street, who I actually got to meet in her living room one weird afternoon I was visiting and he grilled us about our sex life which I found particularly obvious why he was curious in the first place. WL sat with her legs paralleled into that huge recliner she undoubtedly rocked that dude in when all the kids were somehow at school at the same time and but also WL’s adoptive momma was at the bank/mall/grocery store/McDonald’s drive-thru demanding them make a fresh pot of coffee for her because a) they always will do that, she’d heard from her sister and also because b) she was never ever ever EVER in any kind of rush to get home any more, especially since she’d stopped running her little daycare scam while WL’s adoptive daddy obscured it into their mysterious household finances.

I remember sitting apart from her during a touristy presentation they had after dinner that night we were docked in Cabo San Lucas. She’d told me what she’d told me in a powerfully casual way. We were playing newlyweds that afternoon. We got off the tour bus because I wanted to see Sammy Hagar’s Cabo Wabo bar and she indulged me. She wanted to find all the kids souvenirs—that day, pretty please—and while we shopped for luchadore masks and took a little break for a drink at a tourist trap, she took a moment to borrow the wifi signal and post to Facebook that she’d “Married my best friend today!!” and one of the responses was from a former boyfriend of hers that also happened to be my first wife’s step-brother by marriage. Idaho, man. Especially southern Idaho, if you go back far enough, it’s not too surprising to discover you are related somewhere somehow to someone you either have or are currently fucking. It’s simply the way it goes, and by the time you realize it, you usually have a couple of kids. At least that’s the old 208 thirst-trapping I can remember, those poor bastards who got knocked up as teenagers and wherever they were squatting at the time became pretty much the epicenter for the rest of their lives. I know how this sounds, by the way. And I truly truly truly don’t give even a single fuck that it does.

The presentation was in a small theater that normally had a live act. Stand up comedians. Tribute bands. Towards the end of the cruise, a little awards show where our pretend marriage got us pretend awarded the pretend best couple of the pretend honeymoon we both knew would be instantly over even before I’d have to take her to the airport and send her back to Idaho with the rings she’d already bought for herself still in the boxes she’d brought them in, packed neatly and securely into the bottom of her big suitcase, kept like the little secrets they probably still were to everyone that actually mattered to her back in Twin Falls. 

I’ll admit it: it truly truly stunned me, what she’d told me at the buffet. I know now that what I felt at the time was the beginning of a panic attack, and not because I went to a doctor or anything. I know it the way I know most of my hardest truths: in my body, which like all bodies, go through all the wars we will have and ever will wage. In sickness and in death, all we really ever have are our own shells. Marry for love and swear it to the same person and you’ll no doubt, somewhere down the line, get completely what I mean when it all comes down. Telling someone you love them guarantees they can and will hurt you like no one else ever could. You give yourself to this fragility willingly. Sort of.   I guess.

If you’re curious? Yeah, I was absolutely furious, to say the least. As if she give a shit at all. But beyond the anger, a deep and lasting sadness locked in as we bobbed on our life vests in the Sea of Cortez there at Land’s End, at the very tip of the continent, and for all intents and purposes, I drowned that day, right there. Not on the deck early the next morning, before all the golfers were ordering bloody marys at dawn and clicking their drivers against one another, and certainly certainly not when I made myself return to the room where she was still sleeping or pretending or whatever it was she did alone everywhere in the dark.  If a Great White had chewed us up that day, it would have been much better than what followed. So so much much better. 

---------
## SO DON'T BREATHE WHEN I TALK 'CAUSE YOU HAVEN'T BEEN SPOKEN TO
-ROYAL BLOOD, 2014.
-----

She told me every single day and in every single way: *I don’t want to be with you, but I need all this to be someone else’s fault and it aint gonna be mine.*

It was November 2019, the last time I heard that voice. Because I was having to. She was, too. Neither of us wanted to do any real talking or listening the whole way anyway, so it shouldn’t have been a big deal.

Ha.

She’d flown into PDX and rented an Escalade but was 25 minutes late for the mandatory mediation call and she’s panicked and we’re texting and she’s panicked and lost and at the wrong building in the complete opposite and wrong part of Oregon City and did I know? and could I help? and there wouldn’t be another and my emails underneath those texts was begging for it all to just be over and she could have literally whatever she wanted if it could all just be over and did I know and could I help some more? I’d already refused officially to be in the same room with her in the first place. That’s why there even was a phone call in the first place instead of a jail cell that has the last whisper.

I must have already been playing a lot of Call of Duty by then. I’d just been diagnosed with cancer and fast-tracked for surgery, scheduled for the morning of the day after Christmas. She didn’t believe me and had my lawyer send her lawyer pictures and screenshots from the recovery room to prove it. She’d touched every single thing that was on the property in Damascus and what she didn’t take with her she trashed and left as little booby traps all over the house and even across those huge lawns and into the barns where I knew better than to go into by myself in the first place and so never ever did. Whatever wasn’t on property she’d skedattled with back to Twin Falls, ID. 

You know, the old haunt.

I’d tried all the day before that fucking phone call to get her to agree to a settlement so we didn’t have to do any of it any more but she wouldn’t have it and opted for the pain because of course she did and but didn’t I deserve it and shit and TREVOR YOU WILL NEVER EVER QUENCH THAT BOY’S RAGE she taunted me with texts just to see what kind of reactions she’d get. She’d zeroed to the very heart of it for me because she knew me like that because I’d let her in like that; once I decided I needed her excised from me, that’s of course when an actual cancer diagnosis clobbered me and is something I largely still haven’t processed. Because there was so much more going on than just that. In me and outside, too. Because it’s November of 2019.

All she wanted was the fight. Neither of us as only children and barely tolerated by our parents, neither of us gave any real fucks about $. Or the radiation poisoning this rained on the seven human children we had between us, even if none of them were “ours together” as that weird but still completely necessary distinction/saying goes. 

This was the beginning of the time I stopped sleeping and started fighting everything and everyone all at once. Even in my dreams.

And that, ya’ll, was PRE-pandemic for Yours Truly.

Call of Duty Warzone launched during the early days of the pandemic lockdowns here in the Pacific NW, which has had more than its share of lockdowns over the millennia. Ask the Japanese. The Chinese. But especially The Nez Perce and The Lemhi and The Paiute and especially The Shoshone and but especially especially The Bannock. And Et Cetera. Maybe even Old Pete Cetera while you’re at it, who even to this day still calls Blaine County, ID his home. Blaine County, ID, which of course is the oldest and richest part of whatever you would call something called Idaho in the first place. ESTO PERPETUA is the state’s official motto and we all had to memorize this in like second grade and have foisted upon us those terrible ditto-paper handouts still wet and smeared with that weird purple ditto ink that stained your hands and anything else you touched on the way to the back of the room to use the stepstool to climb up to the sink to try and wash it off but of course no way in hell that shit ever comes off and so by time you’re home and so’s your mom, your corduroys you’ve hidden at the bottom of the laundry hamper are in your mother’s clenched fist and she’s ripping you a new one; “Esto Perpetua,” Latin for “May It Be/Last Forever”. I can’t remember if it’s Be or Last and because we live in 2025 and not 1890, I don’t have to remember shit like that anymore and if I do it’s not worth remembering anyway.

Call of Duty Warzone launched in March of 2020. I started playing it about a month later and both times I stopped playing for more than a week it was literally because I was either in need of being hospitalized or in fact really and seriously indeed hospitalized for real. 

I fought them all. And I did not win.

Money to both of us individually meant squat at best; at worst it was a sledgehammer to swing at the other if necessary, if not ideally. To bless the union of two people like this on ANY level is always going to end in ruin. Which of course, it totally did.

We were discussing finances with the mediator who’d hosted the call and was on the line with me when she finally got to the room she was supposed to be in at Red Soils but thought was down the hill, on Main below the Old McLoughlin House that actually used to be down on the floodplain and not up on the bluff; thought the room she was supposed to be in was at the old courthouse that’d burned down at least twice and will never ever be anything even remotely close to a courthouse ever again because everything—the jail and all—moved up to Red Soils as was I guess always the plan?

The legal process for divorces in Clackamas County, OR mandates couples to communicate with each other before a court will actually officially accept the case and allow it to proceed on to a judge, who honestly is just there to make sure everyone is happy with their agreement so everyone can just move the fuck on already. This was the only way I would agree to speak with her at all, and I’d asked the clerk on the phone when I’d first asked for the phone appointment and to have the in-person appointment waived. 

The legal process for divorces in Clackamas County, OR mandated her to actually come back to the state and finish the lawsuit she’d started before skedattling in the first place. I apparently was more than willing to make it worth her while, because after it’s all said and done, the barely 6 years we were married will net her over 350k from my pension and PERS accounts, simply because (A) they are the only assets I had and will likely ever have and (B) my own lawyer fucked me.

Like no and really. Like REALLY.

None of that had happened yet; the most serious injuries were just a few weeks away, when all that talk finally boiled down to a binding agreement. Last time I heard that voice, all of her characters were there as a show of force. I’d even found myself a couple of the earlier exchanges; the moderator asked each of us separately before things began if we wanted to “catch up” and it doing that would be “okay” to satisfy any “lingering curiosities.” She said she’d got a job in the school district in Twin Falls and was going to fast track herself to an education degree of some kind for special assistants or something, classroom aide kind of shit. It all sounded so great the way she bounced across the tops of her sentences in that way she could talk sometimes and for a picosecond you might believe she’s actually telling a truth. It all sounded so great and rehearsed and so I thought it deserved an equally bullshit response, my super-saccharine, “OHHHH you’ll be SOOOO GREAAAAT at that! WOWWWW SOOOO GREAAAAAT!!”

And because we were finding that we might still like each other and maybe even cared what the other was going through in all this, that’s when the finances conversation—which of course the mediator being an experienced mediator saved for absolute LAST—when the financial “needs” she had were nothing more than smears on paper in erasable ink; she was living back in TF COUNTY, it seemed, and claiming her parents’ address as her permanent residence, and most definitely not trying to find a place to live for herself and her two children, who were now spending more time with their own father there in Idaho. She wasn’t paying rent to anyone and didn’t have a mortgage of any kind, yet argued she was expected to help out financially there—“I have to buy some groceries every week,” she claimed when pressed by the mediator to get more specific as to her monthly budget and outgoing costs. And so clearly then I realized THAT was the scam the entire time, and I would now be expected to finally directly support all the madness and mayhem that was truly daily on El Monte St just passed Alturas Dr and paralleling Candy Cane Park. As long as she could make it stick, that was about as forward thinking and planning for the future as she ever got. So when I called it out and then said I was going into a kind of permanent uncertainty with all the health stuff and would be significantly scaling back on the amount of teaching and commuting because I had 3 physicians and my therapist all telling me that if I didn’t, I would be dead within 5 years max. I had just been diagnosed with cancer and had surgery scheduled for the day after Xmas. I wouldn’t know until almost mid January, right before the spring semester started at the university and art school I was also teaching at, both schools would effectively fire me for treating my own disease, choosing in that completely inhuman way to simply not renew the contracts I had been signing for the better part of 20 years as an adjunct, picking up classes all those years to fill gaps in the daunting cost of living a life worth living in Portland, OR costs. I was pretty scared in November 2019, all things considered. But I hadn’t survived 2022 just yet and still don’t think I have.

The tone of the conversation turned sharply, feeling like she knew this would be the last time and opportunity she’d ever have to really let me have it, to jam a shard of ice cold glass as far into my chest as it goes. Not to kill me. To freeze my slushy heart completely solid, to match the one inside her own rib cage, to her license to be as cold and terrible as both of us dared to be.

WELL I DIDN’T GIVE HIM CANCER

She wasn’t talking to me anymore. This was all for the mediator, who’d asked what her expectations were given my health and ability to earn a paycheck going forward. She went third person and everything, after we’d been talking fairly directly to each other most that hour, sharing little reclamation stories about a few of the kids that we crammed all together in those terrible houses and hit blend.

WELL I DIDN’T GIVE HIM CANCER, so I don’t know why any of that matters or has anything to do with me.

I didn’t make her repeat it. I am rarely at any loss for words. I really and truly couldn’t believe what I’d heard. And I’m sure she said a lot more, but I couldn’t hear her anymore. I wouldn’t hear her anymore. Any inertia rolling the car to a stop gave out; all 4 tires blew all at the same time. It’s the edge of the world, past Land’s End, below all the light and sharks and warm of the water there. Sea of Cortez. We sank to the bottom that day and floated back as shades.

All I can remember doing in the moment is gasping for air. And when I finally caught my breath, the last cells in my heart froze over and ruined whatever shards of whatever there ever was between us. If anything at all.

WELL HOW ABOUT THIS: I’LL JUST FUCKING DIE AND YOU CAN JUST HAVE IT ALL

The mediator’s response was much cooler. Calmer. Professional. “Wellllll, I suppose that's an actual proposal we can start with,” she cooed. 

We agreed to talk again, ironically. Before we both hung up and never spoke again in real time and never will, we agreed that we would. Neither of us meant it when we said it. 

Fitting, that. Conspicuously gallant and intrepid, even, some might say.

______
## I'M A STATIC HUM NO LONGER HAPPY DUMB.
-MUSE, 2025.
-------

My memory of Damascus feels longer than it really is, and I know my mind plays tricks on me because my heart no longer pumps anything worth pumping. 

You say something about the grass on the ground not being as green as it is on the roof of that little barn, where all kinds of things had been sprouting that entire + single year we rented the place.  

The very first time I walked through that barn and fantasized about closing and barring the doors with you inside it there with me. We should have made that little barn more than just an errant place for other things to grow. We should have, yes, stayed that last winter together and, yes, built in there a little icehouse and kept it insulated with all the straw and sawdust from whatever had been there before.  
I want to think we would have kept each other warm. 

Because now I'm inside and I can smell whatever leftover smells are still left over from that life still trapped right there in the stall. 

The last time I walked through that little barn with all the dandelions and clover sprouting all over its roof, you were *definitely* never joining me there ever again. But you'd inflated, roped + staked something in there, something requiring electricity, but the power company had just been by to turn everything all off this time for real + for good. 

Okay so listen: I finally dreamed about you last night. I wasn't trying to. I wasn't *not* trying to, too. When you are trying to lock something down that won't descend, what you'll ultimately get + be left over with, it just falls to the ground. Like some scene in some Kojima game or something, murders upon murders of crows raining down for miles, into a distance no one can even pretend to know exists.

In the dream, we were still on talking terms. Barely. I mean, you know. Like it always was. Despite the fact neither of us ever knew what to do when the room fell silent simply because we entered it. 

I want to think what I saw in there that day was a shepherd, lit from below with a too-yellow lightbulb. Knowing it wasn't doesn't stop me from still wanting.

Because something you said I'll always remember is that memories are exactly pretty much always just like you want them to be.

And dreams? Way closer than you should ever admit.