
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/z9Y1gN8NfoU?si=rn4cu-9-qzis7xKB" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## THEY SAY IN HEAVEN LOVE COMES FIRST WE’LL MAKE HEAVEN OUR PLACE ON EARTH.
-BELINDA CARLISLE, 1987.

<iframe allow="autoplay *; encrypted-media *; fullscreen *; clipboard-write" frameborder="0" height="450" style="width:100%;max-width:660px;overflow:hidden;border-radius:10px;" sandbox="allow-forms allow-popups allow-same-origin allow-scripts allow-storage-access-by-user-activation allow-top-navigation-by-user-activation" src="https://embed.music.apple.com/us/playlist/points-promenade/pl.u-obKpudN6zp"></iframe>

-------

I can still feel her pounding the planks of that gym floor, right in front of me, feel it in the tips of my toes through my socks and fat Adidas Rivalrys I’d cleaned and wore back to school that night. She’s teasing me and but mostly dancing all over me like this to make Jeff jealous because she is and always was and always will be not just Jeff’s Girl but always Someone Else’s Girl. Jeff. Billy. Mark. Corey. The Neighbor. Her Ex Husband. Her Not Ex Husband. That night she’s dancing up on me and making the teachers separate us. None of it is for me. I knew it then. I always knew it. 

I always will not have known it. The performance and fiction of it. I always knew it and I always did my very best not to care. TRY FAIL LEARN is a saying Jonny V stole from that CoD streamer Iron we followed during the pandemic, this autistic dude in his 30s living with his parents in Michigan and playing Warzone for sometimes up to 30 hours at a time, marathoning when time completely stopped to matter anymore and our pasts all crept up on us in the dark. TRY FAIL LEARN was basically Iron’s strategy for playing the game he was streaming to tens of thousands of viewers on Twitch at the height of his popularity, 2021-ish; his life played out in little details to us like a soap opera, and ultimately he remains locked there in the past still doing it for the occasional panhandle, but we both—Jonny V and I—are grateful for that time because we wouldn’t have survived the COVID years without it. Or each other. I conjure TFL here because that’s what my romantis poetica must be, especially when it came to The Siren, WL. TRY FAIL LEARN and STAY DRIVE FLY feel and even look palindromic there on the screen, don’t they? Because they are. They are connected because I survived a double dose of cancer in fall 2019 and then, like everyone else, the lockdowns that have begotten so very many mental breakdowns (I think I’m on my…hmm….at least THIRD now, but uh right…). I don’t know where I’m going with this thought as I’m typing it. I had to learn to give myself permission to speak freely and it still doesn’t come very easily. 

WL and I broke up for the very first time shortly after that dance. It is still one of the most lasting sociopathologies I have, getting dumped so razor-blade like the way she did it, between classes in a note and a Mizpah necklace I’d given her over Xmas Break, whose twin I wore on the outside of my t-shirts and not against my skin like most of the other boys who dared to even wear theirs to school in the first place. It wasn’t even 90 minutes before receiving that note we were holding hands in the hallway after nuzzling each other before THAT with our group of friends that always hung out just outside the gym in B Building at O’Leary, the new O’Leary on Elizabeth and Eastland, not the old O’Leary near my new house on 8th Ave N that MMAB and her high school sweetheart PJ went, the summer we moved to 8th Ave, the school already torn down and making room for an expansion to the—you guessed it—TF County Courthouse and Jail complex right there on—you also guessed it—that entire block of Shoshone Avenue between 6th and 5th Avenues, directly opposite TF’s Municipal Park. Before we moved from Jefferson St just across Addison Ave but more towards Marion and Monroe, my parents and I all rode our bikes over to the 8th Ave N house and I got to see the outside of it AS my new home for the first time, even if I wouldn’t be living there for another couple of months. It was 1984 and I was finishing 6th grade and moving on to O’Leary for 7th; KLD had attended and finished (socially promoted) old O’Leary, too. But I was the first in my family to attend new O’Leary, and because it was on the other side of town (TF only had two middle schools when I was growing up there: O’Leary and Robert Stuart; Jefferson St was districted for Stuart and I was supposed to go there after 6th grade but couldn’t because my parents wouldn’t factor where I went to school into the purchase of this “new” house on 8th Ave, which actually was much OLDER than the one we were already living in; in fact, it was a lot older and something about historically important to the town and closer to where MMAB worked so she could walk there, to downtown TF which still had banks and real clothing stores, real sporting goods stores, a real movie theater and real law offices and the town’s only real bookstore for most of my childhood, just kitty-corner to the big bank my mother worked in at the corner of—you guessed it—Main and Shoshone. The real and true heart of the old stagestop/railroad relay town, and my grandmother waited tables at the Depot Grill, also—you guessed it—on Shoshone Ave, just before the rail switches, before you cross The Singing Bridge, above Rock Creek Canyon where there’s a weird area called The Faces where homeless and teenagers rotate through encounters of all kinds even still, I’m sure. When we moved to 8th Ave, MFUP’s world actually got even smaller, denser, more concentrated into the older, more established part of the town which still had a decent vibrancy that I can remember from shopping with my mother and grandmother on Main Street, dime stores like Penny Wise were my favorites for the basements they kept crammed with new toys from the outside world that I’d see advertised on TV or see at school when my friends snuck their Xmas presents on the first day back from Xmas Break, when it was imperative to have something cool to flex.

Vera C. O’Leary Junior High, on Elizabeth Blvd just off Eastland, is—you guessed it—on the east side of town. In the late 1970s, the town built and opened the new junior high--which when I was in public schooling there, was for 7th-9th grade—and demolished the old one. KLD might have been at the new O’Leary briefly, but I don’t remember, think so, or really care. If he did attend the new school, I know for certain I outshined him in every category. It was my mission, even if I had to start 6th and 7th grades wearing his fucking hand-me-downs to a school where I wouldn’t know probably 95% of the kids like AT ALL unless I’d played tee ball against some of them those couple of years I played tee ball and completely fucking hated it, started effectively an entirely new identity for myself there wearing those fucking hand-me-downs and probably still even crusty from his fluids on my skin while my parents toasted themselves with bottles of Brut Cold Duck and, then later, MD 20/20, to celebrate their own LOOK WHAT I GOT flex in buying that house on 8th. 

I got to be friends with Jeff because he was a kid like me with a gregarious, good ole boy for a dad who also liked to drink and collect cars. You read that right. My father not only had a career in auto tech, he collected and restored vintage cars. I should say, he did this exactly once. And mostly, before I was born. In fact, I’m quite sure my arrival on the planet put a pretty big damper on whatever small time plans he had for his life there on the Snake River Plain that didn’t have to resort to ranch work for a living. Something with steady and fat paychecks. Bonuses, even. My parents are selectively frugal with their flexes. The house on Jefferson constantly had, until he sold it to a wealthy casino owning trust fund baby in Jackpot, NV, a 1932 Ford roadster he’d converted into a street rod and maintained. MFUP belonged to a local car club and had for many years before I started hanging out with Jeff. Jeff’s father was another trust fund baby of sorts whose own father built a successful repair and refueling business for semis and agricultural equipment before handing it down to Jeff’s father, who had a taste for Corvettes and brunettes that went at least back to high school, when MFUP would see and meet up with him—his name is Orlan—on “The Cruise” every Friday/Saturday nights along Blue Lakes Blvd starting before dusk and quite literally in those days not stopping much before dawn; the summer time cruise had the most traffic and sometimes the police would try to thin the herd. But mostly it was the primary social scene for young people not just in TF but all over The Tragic Valley. If you had friends in nearby towns or counties and they could swing rides into town, odds were pretty good you’d see those friends in a car on Friday or Saturday night before they had to beat whatever curfews they had to beat to get back to towns named Kimberly, Buhl, Jerome, Eden, Shoshone, Filer, and even as far sometimes as Glenns Ferry, Kings Hill, Hailey, Bellevue, the occasional Ketchum and Sun Valley carload of kids. It wasn’t just important to be seen on The Cruise. It was even more important to be seen with whomever it was you were wanting to be seen with. 

Jeff and I were friends for almost all of junior high because he was one of the very few kids I recognized there off Eastland that first week of school. I didn’t know him enough to talk to him. I don’t think I knew his name. I knew he was at those car club meetings both our dads went to, though, because I would often be at the arcade machines and mopping up the last of an entire pizza MFUP would order and then eat maybe one slice max while he downed—especially during the Early Iron meetings—a couple pitchers of draft beer before the night was over. The meetings were attended almost entirely by people who worked in/on cars, and also by people who were in various stages of serious drinking problems and/or accompanying marital issues. For my entire childhood, my parents have been those people. MMAB used to attend the car club meetings and go on “Rod Runs” and they filmed and photographed a lot of this stuff and it predates their films and photographs of me, and I always suspected it was my arrival that impacted that stuff the most. The car club was technically family friendly and hosted an annual car show where they rented the Expo Center at the local community college, the College of Southern Idaho, which at the time I lived in TF was the only college campus within 130 miles. TF was the largest town in the area by a good amount, yes, but we’re talking about towns that have populations barely in the ONES of thousands, let alone hundreds of thousands, so you ended up with what was barely there anyway. CSI’s Expo Center was built in the late 1970s, too, and primarily functioned then, as I’m pretty sure it still does today, as the main facility for the school’s competitive rodeo program. This matters because CSI is one of the few community colleges I’ve ever known to have on-campus dorms, and they built these shortly after building the school because CSI very quickly developed a high octane athletic program where Eddie Sutton won national championships in juco hoops before he did the same thing just a few years later in the NCAA’s big dance. On campus athletes at CSI historically have been in one of three sports: basketball, volleyball or rodeo. 

-------------------
## WELL YOUR DADDY HE DON'T LIKE ME AND YOUR FRIENDS ALL PUT ME DOWN / BUT YOU'RE GONNA HAVE TO TELL THEM 'CAUSE I'M TIRED OF SNEAKIN' AROUND.
-NEW EDITION, 1985.
--------

WL was always Jeff’s girl. From the very beginning. From, apparently, kindergarten it was that way. “We had the same middle name and we were both adopted,” she’d tell me at some point and in some context that stopped mattering a pretty long time ago. 

I think it was maybe a week max after that dance, I figured it out that WL and Jeff were together and knew it would probably hurt my feelings so they both just pretended none of it had happened. I don’t know why I forgave Jeff. He constantly put me in no-win conversations or circumstances when it came to girls because we both inherently knew we were competing with each other, whether we were trying to or not. I’d always known WL was obsessed with Jeff. He’d told me so. Her energy around him was like an octopus and she wasn’t exactly light with her tone or tact. WL had an enormous barrel laugh and donkey bray sometimes, and she wasn’t exactly the smartest tool in the shed to both borrow and deserve a complete cliche. 

But when I think of her dancing there in front of me, occasionally catching my stare but mostly looking away, I can’t hear Belinda Carlisle anymore. All I can hear is a totally different song, one that they’d never play at anything DJed by Z-103’s Logan Tusow. It’s Rush’s “Force Ten,” and it’s these lines:

WE CAN MOVE WITH SAVAGE GRACE
TO THE RHYTHMS OF THE NIGHT
COOL AND REMOTE LIKE DANCING GIRLS
IN THE HEAT AND THE BEAT OF THE LIGHT
AND THE LIGHTS

What I’m getting at is 1987 wasn’t a monolith. Not even for me, it wasn’t. This is a big deal and a real revelation. MFUP and MMAB were in their own world of their own making. Junior high was the first place where I felt a similar kind of pull and drive to succeed and, however impossible, maybe even someday ESCAPE and not just escape TF but escape my very programming. Which has never been easy. But school made it a little easier. When I had 7 teachers instead of just 1 when I started my classes in 7th grade at O’Leary, and all of them were telling me I was gifted and talented and why wasn’t I in accelerated thisses or thatses, I started to understand what I would ultimately live out: I am not completely a product of those people or that place. I couldn’t be, to be where I am and to have lived the life I have lived so far. I just couldn’t be. Which is a massive relief in one way but completely isolating and lonely in another. 

Truth is, I was way over WL when I met up with her in person decades later. Nonetheless, I’d felt bad about a brief fling we’d had the summer she started high school and I started driving a car and working overtime and Saturdays in the summer at the car dealership instead of widening my life to include other interests besides cars and girls. But it WAS the mid 1980s in Twin Fucking Falls, ID, and for boys in Twin Fucking Falls, ID in the mid 1980s, there’s that always-closing vise you feel because you know there aren’t nearly enough good jobs or girls to keep you in The Tragic Valley much past graduation unless your dad owns a diesel repair business or runs an auto service department grafted onto the eternal grift of places like Thiesen Motors, Randy Hansen Chevrolet, Abbie Uriegan Oldsmobile, Bob Reese Chrysler Plymouth Dodge. 

What I’m getting at with that last bit is this: there’s a thing about Lost Boys in Mormon culture. And one of the things about Mormon culture I know for certain is this: you don’t have to believe or even know Mormonism at all to be culturally Mormon. Mormonism in the USA is split between the historically more fundamental one that Joseph Smith founded in Palmyra, NY at the beginning of the 19th century after a failed career of scrying and land speculation; and the official, incorporated Church of Latter-day Saints that’s famously headquartered in Salt Lake City, Utah (which, at its time of settlement by the Mormons, was OUTSIDE of the official boundaries of the United States of America. When Mormons moved to Territorial Utah, they did not call it or recognize it as Territorial Utah; they called it and recognized it as what Brigham Young told them it was: the holy state of Deseret, where Mormons were instructed to rebuild the one true Church that Joseph Smith HAD ALREADY rebuilt in Illinois, near enough the Mississippi River to call it good or Nauvoo or whatever he called it). 

And why any of THAT SHIT matters is because of what I said before, about how no matter how much you might want to stay living in a shithole place like TF just because you grew up there and don’t know any fucking better, is because THERE DEFINITELY AREN’T enough good jobs or girls or guys or anything to keep you there. I’m sorry, insurance and car salesmen which comprise so much of the “work” force in southern Idaho that hasn’t already been slurped up by Chobani’s enormous yogurt factory that’s literally not in any specific town, just strategically built close enough between the towns of Twin Falls and Kimberly so as to drain the local water supply to a crawl and bump up the number of DUI and ICE stops right there before you turn fully into the plant, so any officer actions are squarely on public property.

The Shoshone, who become the unwitting namesake of US Highway 93 when it meets Blue Lakes Blvd at Addison Ave at a part of town known as “West Five Points”, did not cross the river and settle on top of the unforgiving plain. They also never attempted to jump the canyon in a jet-powered rocket cycle. Why the fuck would they? There are better places. Better stories. Better lives to live. The Shoshone always knew it. The Bannock, too. But sometimes it’s not just better. It’s simply because there is not enough to go around. It’s simply because it is unsustainable. It’s simply because if we stay here we will turn first to hate then to apathy then to cannibalism then ultimately into shade. Especially if you haven’t asked the Little People already if you can keep what little shelter and sustenance barely exists here in the first place. And don’t worry if you don’t think it’s their territory or not. Because what you think doesn’t matter nearly as much as you think it does. Just like anything that anyone thinks matters as much as they think it does. 

There is no such thing as something that matters as much as anyone thinks it does. 

Especially when one person is dancing while the other person who’s supposed to be dancing with them refuses. Because dancing with someone isn’t ever really JUST dancing with them now, is it? 

________
## MY MOMMA DON'T LIKE YOU + SHE LIKES EVERYONE.
-BIEBER, 2015.
------

It was like 2 AM when I’m squinting in the dark with the bathroom door locked, sitting there with my shorts pulled up and squinting harder each time I scrolled over those little green bubbles I just hated to see on your phone, the ceiling—YOUR ceiling—stained permanently that mossy emerald because he never did stop texting you because you never did stop yourself.

Never would.

And there’s that word on the screen, unprompted: HONEY. My finger drags across it one last time before I do that thing with the index finger and thumb to take a screenshot and I sit with it—I really really do—for a good minute before I punch save and unlock the handle to that bathroom door. 

It’s barely four steps from the handle to the foot of your bed and you already know what you’re going to say because it’s what you’ve always said before and it’s always worked before and you know you have me wrapped around your finger so you don’t even remotely have to let anything linger.

Which you most certainly don’t. It’s about five hours later and you’ve stood your ground the entire way and you are again correct that you can get a man to do just about anything for you when he’s in fact predisposed to doing so. The number of these men is few, though, and you would know. The old joke your father tells is you should get yourself a proctologist’s license because you’ve been with every asshole in the area. You always liked telling that one with me in the room, especially. 

It’s about six hours later and you’re dropping me off at the terminal and I’m making you park your mom’s car and it’s beyond obvious you don’t want to do anything more than you absolutely have to. I’m getting on a plane and flying back to Portland and you are so fucking glad for it, you can’t believe it. It was worth the sleepless night to see how far you could push me, and to see how quickly I’d cave once you swapped out HONEY for something even more precious.

PRIVACY.

BECAUSE IT WAS YOU + ME WHO MADE THE JAM, you fucking bitch. I could never tell if you just didn’t remember that part. Or TOTALLY remembered that part. How we’d went and bought two big flats of ruby red raspberries and fat fat black raspberries and we mashed all that fruit in the kitchen and then each other and those were the days we had the windows open all night, ground floor, and we also stayed up all night, in and on and through each other. Because you were always hoping someone—at least The One, anyway—would hear your cries and interject himself to make them stop. That was your biggest disappointment of all, how he wouldn’t stop you from yourself and all the damage you would do just to prove your points. 

But before you showed me who you really were, there was that absolutely insane September when I couldn’t quite believe I was letting myself fall for you. Telling myself that I wasn’t certainly wasn’t going to and couldn’t and how ridiculous and even still. I did not love you because you cannot be loved. I know this because I’m the same way. It’s the only fucking thing we ever really had in common. 

Our rage, it more than fueled the rest.