<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/myvPbGiwwHQ?si=gDVHQwr4EqX24swX" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## +THEWORLD +THEWORLD +THEWORLD +THEWORLD THEWORLD DRAGS ME DOWN.
-THE CULT, 1985.

<iframe allow="autoplay *; encrypted-media *; fullscreen *; clipboard-write" frameborder="0" height="450" style="width:100%;max-width:660px;overflow:hidden;border-radius:10px;" sandbox="allow-forms allow-popups allow-same-origin allow-scripts allow-storage-access-by-user-activation allow-top-navigation-by-user-activation" src="https://embed.music.apple.com/us/playlist/points-quarry/pl.u-jJpWuMA65X"></iframe>

--------

Okay, I guess it’s not really all that simple. 

Okay.

And right and this is a huge thing to say but capital T kinds of truths do, it’s true!, tend to be huge things now, don’t they: my parents were old school, southern Idaho racists. It is obligatory if you grew up there—which the three of us all did—to hate The Spics/Wetbacks, The Gooks/Chinks, and (just slightly after my time) The Ragheads/Terrorists, despite the real facts that it was impossible to be in public schools in southern Idaho after WW2 and not see strikingly diverse classrooms given the fact that it’s fucking IDAHO we’re even talking about here. Idaho!!! Multicultural??? You know who were weren’t taught nearly as much to hate, though? 

The Shoshone.
The Sheepeaters.
The Paiutes.
The Bannock.
The Nez Perce.
The Umatilla.

In all of my memory of attending grade school in TF and graduating class of 1991 TFHS, I can only think of a single kid I knew who was Native. His name was Duane Uses Arrow and I can only guess and stereotype the faint traces I felt of him, and but so I’d have to resort to something trite like a high school yearbook or something. Twin Falls High School was the first and only secondary school in the town from its inception to just about 15 years ago now. The mascot for TFHS—as well as its official colors—imitates that of the University of California at Los Angeles: The Bruins. Up highway 93 past Jerome, there’s a single, shitty town named for the mighty Shoshone. My uncle and aunt live still there and my aunt taught grade school and high school and then grade school again in a public school and proudly voted for Walter Mondale in 1984 when I got super interested in politics and she would actually have real conversations with me and give me U2 cassettes for Christmas.

Where I’m going with this thing about Duane Uses Arrow goes like this: I should have known A LOT MORE Native kids than I did. Especially given the territory. The Snake River Plain—the river itself—is historically and quite really a shared empire between about half a dozen tribes but principally the Northern Paiute, the Bannock and, of course, the Shoshone. The last of the great and mighty chiefs of the Shoshone, Chief Pokatello, is the namesake of a shitty town in eastern Idaho which sprung up to extract minerals and impose large-scale industrial farming (accompanied, of course, with its large-scale industrial POLLUTION which is quite evident if you ever have traveled through eastern Idaho and northern Utah, where the two freeways cross over near Pocatello. Pocatello, a city created largely to keep a constant eye trained and gun cocked on all the conquered brown people forced to live on the Rez at Fort Hall. Fort Hall, by the way, was a straight up bait and switch. The Shoshone and Bannock were promised the Camas Prairie as well, but all of the fucking miners and land speculators swooped in when they settled things in 1878 and made it clear to the Bannocks they would be exterminated. And, of course, were treated accordingly. Speculators like Blaine brought foreign capital to Alturas County and ended up building a tremendous fortune by dredging the major and minor river channels of central Idaho. Rocky Bar was the county seat of Alturas County in Idaho’s territorial days, which was for about a 30 year span; Idaho became a state in 1890, with its capitol having already shifted from Lewiston to Boise; Rocky Bar and its sister town Atlanta sat above literal fortunes of machinery and mazes of mines, and none of it was particularly easy to access from what really and truly feels like an entirely outside world because the baseline altitude is probably at least 4-5,000 feet (the tallest mountain in the ring is something like 9,300 feet, and something like Idaho’s fifth tallest mountain overall or something; PLARD had it at the ready, funny enough, facts like that and what he could retain…)at its peak, the settled area between and around Rocky Bar/Atlanta numbered well over a couple thousand people.

The very first outdoor activities I can remember—the day tripping kind, I guess you’d say—were bouncing around the forest service trails and logging roads and—yes—spelunking around old mine shafts in Rocky Bar. I distinctly remember a rough ride in the pickup truck to what I was promised would be a “famous” ghost town called Spanishtown which was supposedly evidence of Spanish settlement in the intermountain west, but isn’t; the mythology around these stories echoes from shit like Balboa’s questing for the Seven Cities of Cibola or something equally large/expansive/ridiculous like that. 

In the summer of 1878, Chief Buffalo Horn straight up terrorized the part of southern Idaho I grew up in. He not only attacked Gus Glenn’s ferry for helping the U.S. Calvary and incessant streams of overland settlers/land speculators cross the Snake from south to north as they traveled on to Fort Boise; Buffalo Horn not only attacked the ferry but burned and sank it into the river, then turned to burning and sinking as much of the surrounding/supporting “town” there as they could. They murdered white settlers and, of course, the local population of squatters who were rightly afraid of getting similarly murdered LOST THEIR FUCKING MINDS, with news reports in regional newspapers (Boise, Portland, Seattle).

Fort Boise, of course, was NOT and NEVER WOULD BE a fucking Indian reservation. The territorial seal from the state’s first capital, at Lewiston in the north, was literally stolen and taken to Fort Boise and kept behind its walls until Lewiston had no choice but to let go. The short history of Idahoan culture is pretty fucked up, quite clearly, and you don’t have to dig too deep to see why. 

------
## STRAIGHTENIN' THE CURVES FLATTENIN' THE HILLS SOMEDAY THE MOUNTAIN MIGHT GET 'EM BUT THE LAW NEVER WILL.
-WAYLON, 1981.
-----

It was probably that second Odyssey2 unit that got the most burn, come to think of it. And the game I played the most by far was Pick Axe Pete. I absolutely remember playing it at the cabin in the early Saturday mornings when I’d wake up to coffee already brewing and a fire already burning and my sobering-up parents quietly going about their respective sobering-ups. MFUP had a properly seasoned and heavy heavy heavy cast iron pan he used to make from-scratch breakfast potatoes that he fried to perfection and at altitude. Morning MFUP, by the way, THAT is who I convinced myself was my REAL dad for decades. I still trip across that programming, even. MMAB helped me convince myself of it, every day she went to work and came back home and slept on the same floor of the house as MFUP and I; there was a rough stretch where MMAB went to Monroe St and apparently spent the night as a shot across the bow; my grandparents, of course, were also both daily drinkers and navigating almost all the same issues. I can remember being over there one time while I was still in high school and my grandmother, then in her early 50s, was complaining about having to fuck her whiskey-dick husband, and how that’s just part of being somebody’s wife, and blah blah blah, because one thing about my grandmother on Monroe was this: she was liable to say ANYthing to ANYone at ANYfuckingtime and gave NO SHITS because she was, by MMAB’s own description and memory-recalling one day with me, “a complete spoiled brat” who’d grown up the youngest of a first generation immigrant family from what eventually gestated into the Weimar Republic. That sounds elevated; I don’t mean to make it sound like that. Because you know what ended up happening to Weimar Germany, right? And if you don’t, the very fact that you don’t precludes me even asking the fucking question in the fucking first place. (Yeah?)

But yeah, I played PAP incessantly at the cabin, and just about every day after school when I’d get home I knew I could play completely uninterrupted absolutely anything I wanted in the bomb shelter of that house on Jefferson, because I was given a key to the front door which also unlocked the garage when I started first grade at Harrison Elementary in August of 1979, and the only real times I can remember my parents showing me their fuller rage over something I’d fucked up where always when I’d lose the key. They tried giving me fancy keyrings and I’d lose them, key and all. MFUP made it clear each time he’d hand me a freshly-cut one from the Ernst on Blue Lakes or the Pay-n-Pack on Kimberly Road or the Grover Electric just down from the Pay-n-Pack or wherever else he’d show up to have YET ANOTHER FUCKING KEY MADE FOR MY FUCKING RETARD KID WHO COULD READ BEFORE HE WAS OUT OF DIAPERS BUT CAN’T KEEP TRACK OF A FUCKING KEY ARE YOU FUCKING KIDDING ME, _______________ ? (And then, of course, add in whatever one-syllable name you want there, male or female, but he definitely preferred the businesses who had lady cashiers). One of my first early scams was to convince them in 2nd grade to buy me a pair of Roos, which were brand new and super fucking cool because they had a zipper pocket on them and so that was how I justified them spending actual money on an actual AND NEW pair of shoes for me going into 2nd or maybe it was 3rd grade, but regardless that was the extent and level of my trickery. My capers were super vanilla because I was too busy carrying the punishing burden of my older cousin’s developing sexual appetites despite the clear fact he was dyslexic if not also autistic but being born in 1968 relegated the poor motherfucker to some real misfortune that didn’t begin with him any more than it ended with him. Or me. Or Amanda Hudson. Or his own daughter. Or mine. When he was finally convicted of sexually assaulting Amanda during the kinds of surprise sleep-overs I got to help him, I guess, “practice,” his wife and child remained living in the same house with him as he cruised back and forth to a towing company owned by Bill of Bill’s Mufflers, a Main Street business owner who did business with MFUP both, I’m sure, above and below board. MFUP ran the service department at the infamous LATHAM Motors, TWIN FALLS’ FINEST, which, of course, was never much of a boast if you think about it. Twin Falls began as an old State Stop along what I guess you’d call Idaho’s version of The Pony Express, and also a small switchyard for the Union Pacific railroad which parallels the Snake River for most of southern Idaho. MFUP’s parents were, respectively, a truck driver and a waitress; these were the kids who had ranching parents but because there were only so many ranches and culturally Mormon in that Lost Boy kind of way, if you weren’t running a ranch or working a ranch, odds were excellent you were in town servicing ranch equipment or out of town driving a truck to deliver whatever needed to go wherever it needed to go, because TF is and always has been a pass-through. The Shoshone for sure regarded it that way, which was why they gave it no regard to actually settle. Not just there at TF. ANYwhere. Once they bought up horses and rifles from Hudson’s Bay via the Nez Perce, the Shoshone spent their twilight years patrolling an evaporating empire that was changing literally by the second, and especially once the gold miners infested all of the principal river valleys and waterways in the 1850s. It’s only 1948 when MFUP is born in Hailey, easily within a single human lifetime from the Bannock War of 1878 which permanently banned Natives to live on reservations, where they were systemically decimated and had their entire ways of life pulverized. Barely 70 years later, it’s a leap year: 1948, and MFUP’s parents have already had two other children but only one is still alive and they’re on their way from somebody else’s family ranch in Carey, ID—sheep, isn’t it?—and driving a new stretch of highway to Hailey because that’s where the closest hospital is and goddammit Earl will you fucking step on it did you want to have a son at all and if so you’d better get us there or he’ll die in your hands too you motherfucker for doing this bullshit to me in the fucking first place I fucking hate you Earl you ruined my entire life you know so just shut up and drive. 