
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/MONq86klmSY?si=m8qJsstutivFhh6D" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## I’M READY FOR THE LAUGHING GAS.
-U2, 1991.

<iframe allow="autoplay *; encrypted-media *;" frameborder="0" height="450" style="width:100%;max-width:660px;overflow:hidden;background:transparent;" sandbox="allow-forms allow-popups allow-same-origin allow-scripts allow-storage-access-by-user-activation allow-top-navigation-by-user-activation" src="https://embed.music.apple.com/us/playlist/points-train-station/pl.u-82zjtDM98j"></iframe>

--------

All I can hear are the opening scuffle of U2’s “Zoo Station,” all that distortion, all that static. But it’s a deeper cut on that album, ACHTUNG BABY, “Who’s Gonna Ride Your Wild Horses,” that puts me right back in that parking lot and fumbling the jockey box of that Blazer I’d just replaced an entire rear axle to drive across the desert in a fever of desperation and thirst that I’ve only ever seen rivaled on the reality TV that sang me to sleep every night, no matter who was snoring next to me.

That’s the parking lot where I decided it didn’t matter anymore who I was really in love with. I just knew I didn’t love myself, so it really didn’t matter anyway. Who could put up with it. Me. All of it. Always always always just too much to ask.

I’d spent at least a full week not sleeping, pining for that siren after she’d dropped the Skype call and tried not to answer the storm of redials that she knew would never ever stop. Not so much that a man in love has nothing to lose when he knows he’s losing it; way moreso that a man has nothing to lose in the first place when there are only the flickering shadows of whatever’s on TV late enough at night to cast them in the first place, and the man has already come to understand that love isn't anything to do with anything ever really anyway.

I stopped sleeping entirely during that Skype call. And started sleepwalking. And I’m pretty sure I’ve never been back and will forever just be doing that.

I do know one thing for certain, though, and it's this: I’m beyond whatever anyone ever calls call tired. And very likely beginning my latest—you guessed it!—nervous breakdown. Oh good lord, Trevor, the melodrama and shoegazing and piling on. All the self sabotage. And oh so very much all that tunnel vision. Digging and driving though, towards…..?

-------
## I’VE LISTENED TO PREACHERS I’VE LISTENED TO FOOLS I’VE WATCHED ALL THE DROPOUTS WHO MAKE THEIR OWN RULES.
-OZZY, 1980.
----------

Her cellphone wouldn’t stop ringing that entire time she tried to decide where to spend the night that night because she knew if it wasn’t with me it would be the very last time she’d ever see or hear from me. Do you believe in instant regrets? Would it matter if you did?

We ended up at a Buffalo Wild Wings. She had three drinks with heavy cream floating on top of them. I meant it when I told her that I didn’t care where we spent the night together. Because I never ever did. She always had my complete attention. She was the entire point of interest.

“Time is a train,” Bono sings. “Leaves the future the past / Leaves you standing in the station / Your face pressed up against the glass.” 

I don’t remember what was playing on that short jaunt from the BWW parking lot. I also don’t remember if we drove over separate. I don’t remember who got there first or who waited for who in the booth or who wadded up their break-up letter first or who jammed what into one huge cardboard box first. As if any box at all could hold any of it. Or anything at all.

I do remember parking just past the tennis courts where Jonny V and I dreamed of getting out of Twin Falls together and then later made good on doing exactly, precisely that. I tried really hard not to feel my failures in that moment, drawn out by a series of tempestuous emails between her and I that brought me literally across the county line that night just to see what kind of trouble she would make with me. If any. I parked my freshly-repaired Chevy Blazer that I’d used an old school check float to make possible just to get there. It was a little after 5 and the sun was cooking everything because it was July in Southern Idaho and I was desperate and delirious and disbelieving still that she had agreed to meet me. 

We’d broken up on a late Friday night Skype call that felt like one of those real-time hostage livestreams; I was 48 hours away from finishing the final parental “counseling” “class” the state of Oregon required my soon-to-be-ex-wife and I to complete in order to put our tremendously painful divorce finally and forever out of its misery. I was living at the time in a one-bedroom, ground-level apartment adjacent to a busy Albertson’s grocery store. It’s never been lost on me, too, that my soon-to-be-ex-wife had gone to school at Albertson College when it was temporarily renamed that, but a good amount of time before it was named back to just its old name, College of Idaho, which is really neither here nor there but still nonetheless I never passed by that grocery store after we separated and didn’t think about the irony of that, living in the weird light pollution having a major grocery store parking lot effectively functioning as your side lawn.

I tried not to be in that apartment as much as I could help it, especially in the interstitial of time when M wouldn’t let the boys walk the half a block between the house we all were renting/living in 6 months prior. Our separation was a vicious one, with a fairly abrupt instigation by Yours Truly, who pretty much used an extra-marital affair with no legs to pry myself free from the life that had almost already suffocated me. Blunt truths became our common language, and within months of the official end of our marriage, I had already made another preposterously terrible relationship decision by doing anything other than ending the affair. And then, of course, compounded that terrible decision at least a hundred fold by another and then another and then another, all between Big and Little Camas Prairies. 

---------
## SO WHY DO I FEEL THE STRAIN THAT KEEPS TRIPPIN' ME UP? WILL IT EVER BE A SIMPLE THING?
-KEN, 1985.
------

And you know what it is right, Trevor? IF that even is your real name. Trevor. Travis. Traver. Whateverthefuckever? It’s that fucking Highway. The Medal of Honor Highway. Particularly that last little bit right before you get to Carey on the Prairie and if nothing else ever mattered in the whole world, if its rhymes it’s devine.

Anyway and but yeah some more: one of the very first games a baby learns that helps them understand they are a permanent fixture in the world is a game called Peek-A-Boo. The game is simple: you blind yourself on purpose and then “scare” yourself back into reality by usually just covering your eyes with your hand. Then you say the incantation. You have to say the words out loud and they are baby words in the sense that even a baby can understand the concept, that just because you hold your hand up to your face and even if you poke yourself in the eyes like Oedipus and refuse to ever look at anything again, nonetheless you don’t have to see something in order to know it’s real and doesn’t need your validation in the first place.

Peek-A-Boo is three words and makes a bad town name, though. 

Carey isn’t much better; too much of that name is a four letter word.

Word plus a letter = world. 

And like most worlds, there’s always going to be at least one priest attending its destruction.

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m18!1m12!1m3!1d47594855.10297582!2d167.99618469999987!3d43.273226000000015!2m3!1f0!2f0!3f0!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x54aa4ba6c07f2465%3A0xb987fc3f95723800!2s18-20%20Priest%20Rd%2C%20Carey%2C%20ID%2083320!5e0!3m2!1sen!2sus!4v1782937036719!5m2!1sen!2sus" width="600" height="450" style="border:0;" allowfullscreen="" loading="lazy" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin"></iframe>

Highway 20 hits Highways 93 + 26 at Carey, ID and keeps moving due east all the way to Boston, MA. The Medal of Honor Highway, the U.S. Congress has designated it, well since I grew up and blew away from the Snake River Plain in the 1990s. It would never have me. And that feeling is mutual. I have never felt rooted or in any way grounded to Idaho my entire life. MMAB’s family came to Idaho from the Dakotas, and she herself was born there even though you’d have no fucking idea otherwise and as if there’s really a massive difference between places like Carey and Jamestown, Picabo and Napoleon. All the names are terrible and rhetorical dares anyway; if you had to grow up in any of these towns as a white kid starting even before Idaho becomes a state, you were literally always within a stone’s throw of the forced relocation of other human beings whom you instinctively knew had done nothing to deserve their fates much more than being born at the wrong place at the wrong time. The inherent privilege that comes with being white in our society gets magnified a billion times when you become aware you are living in occupied territory and you are, yes indeed, The Occupier. You don’t feel like one. But you are. Especially if you didn’t begin there in the first place. 

I look at these places in Google street view and drive their neighborhoods because these are places I don’t fundamentally understand. I don’t mean that in the sense of these are places that I want destroyed because it’s not as simple as that. Nothing ever is. The Shoshone and Bannock and Paiute knew the geography and geological history of their empires intimately; all of them have records and stories of their ancestors along the banks of mighty Lake Bonneville, which is all but dried up now and continuing to toxify the entire Salt Lake Valley as it evaporates and leaves nothing but literal salt literally sown into the soil, which, well, just ask the Spartans what the fuck happens when you do that shit on purpose, but of course, that’s another story for another time because, of course, there’s always another story and always another time and always an opportunity to just change the fucking subject in medias res or even mid-thought, mid-sentence, mid-mid, and on and on and on.

I look at Priest Road in particular and know what Google knew way before me. And I was supposedly here way before Google. At least that’s what calendars tell me; my own memory isn’t helpful here because there is literally no memory I would ever have of Picabo, ID because there is no single time I was ever brought there or told stories about it or made to believe anyone who’d ever actually been there missed it or needed it or even just wanted to watch it all burn. I have a single childhood memory of Carey and it was the first time I can remember ever being inside any kind of Mormon church. My grandfather’s church. NOT a Baptist church. NOT Emma’s church. And my memory of that space goes like this: it’s 1981 and my great grandmother Dodge has passed and there’s a service for her in a stake center and the lobby feels big and Emma is wearing a dress and being somber like she’s supposed to be and whispering like she thinks she’s supposed to and she’s coaxing me up to the casket where I’m, yeah, definitely tall enough to stand there and see there’s a dead woman in the open casket and I think the lace on her burial dress is a soft peach color and I can see where they’ve put make-up on her face and also some on the tops of her wrists and wrinkled hands in vain efforts to take the grey out of her skin, that color you can’t even call grey because there’s no color left in you when you die and we all seem to pretty much know that, don’t we? 

Nothing happened at the casket other than confirmation that everything you’ll ever feel when you’re alive will stop the moment you die, but it stops only for YOU; to be born at all is a duality all human beings share, regardless of whether they want to or think otherwise: to be be born at all is both a miracle + and a curse, and neither of these things exist separate from one another. 

Nothing happened at the casket other than Emma and I continuing to breathe and realizing the person we were both looking at, she didn’t have to anymore. 

Or get to.

I’m not sure which is worse, and I think anyone who thinks they ARE sure as to which is worse——breathing as opposed to not—-is almost certainly + completely kidding themselves. 

I want to say Emma wasn’t wearing black that day, but I don’t know that for certain. I want to say Emma was wearing the same blue pantsuit I’d seen her wear to all kinds of things besides Mormon funerals, that same pantsuit she’s wearing in the Sears portraits she and Earl made themselves pose for in those hella fake poses where the wife is made to put her palm flat against the lapel of her husband and then crane back at the camera and smile a big toothy smile as if any of that was in any way natural or honest. When I was a kid, it was completely normal—if not frequent—to watch one of your parents open a wrapped gift that once unwrapped was a hand-cobbled-puttied picture frame from Earl’s workshop that always always ALWAYS smelled like hay and fresh-cut grass, and flattened under the custom-cut glass would be a photograph of some sort. All of the men—including Earl—equipped themselves with camera outfits, expensive 35mm rigs with long and short and fat and even skinny lenses that screwed into things called “bodies” or “chassises”, and Christmas morning at 119 Clinton Dr was always something to both see and, if you were lucky, got to actually experience for yourself. Emma overcompensated for entire years of evils on Christmas Days. I quickly learned as a child that Emma showed affection through showy gifts; one Christmas I can remember all of the men—including KLD—opening the same tall boxes and finding the same long camera lenses in them. 

What I’m trying to say here, I guess, is: appearances mattered and people in my family never told you to your face that they love you or ever wanted to get too close or interested in you. Avoidance and verbal abuse was completely normative in the way everyone talked to each other, and Christmas Days on Clinton Dr always had official start times. What they rarely had was official end times, and but so everyone—including my mother—would take their own separate cars over and then peel off as the day wore on; Emma gave priority to us, but it was always the case at least one of her sisters--Aunt Sally or Aunt Gracie—would also roll through. Earl’s family was almost never around Clinton Dr, mostly because none of them lived in TF. He had a sister in Jerome, but his only brother, Gene, lived in Nevada. Gene and Earl were unmistakably brothers and Gene was universally loved. I loved him, too. He had that big familiar smile and laugh and forehead, but Gene was also quick and smart in his conversations and had a joviality about him that wasn’t fueled by alcohol the way MFUP’s usually was. KLD loved Gene, too, and made sure to hog his attention in whatever ways he could. Ann did as well. Everyone wanted Gene’s attention, is what I remember. But much more than that, everyone wanted Gene to think well of them. When Gene was around, you could see and feel Earl shrink a bit. They loved each other and that seemed clear enough. They’d taken different life paths--my understanding was: Gene, the younger brother, joined the military first (Navy), and Earl was going to also go Navy but he failed out with some of the testing so he ended up joining the Army near the end of hostilities and got sent to Okinawa to help occupy Japan. He enlisted on St. Patrick’s Day, 1945, and was promptly minted as Military Police; in Japan is where he started taking photographs in any amount of frequency or volume, so I’m guessing he purchased a rig while he was active duty and brought all of it home and pretended for the rest of his life that he hadn’t seen or done any of it. 

Because: how much of his military service WAS optional? It was 1945 and he’d been married to Emma for not even three years yet and they have a baby—Elizabeth—who’s not even two yet and there’s an Earl, Jr. on the way when we ships off for Japan. Neither Ben nor Clarence Chess served military stints; both of them applied for exemptions when WWI broke out, and both were granted. Their farms and their families were apparently deemed more important, not only to them, but to the U.S. federal government, which quite obviously decided it was more important the Carey Act and Reclamation Act projects be justified. This is an era of incredible public works projects, big and splashy and expensive and clearly clearly clearly all aimed at making sure agriculture could at least get whites a firmer toehold in the thin, dry, largely non-existent “top soil”. Twin Falls is barely 4 decades in existence and the “dry farming” techniques/experiments used to rationalize and justify the spill-over settlement of old mining claims that had long long long ran dry themselves, well, that dry farming shit had to get large-scale and corporate in order to metastasize, but even then I don’t know if you can really say with a straight face it as all worth it. All the dams on the rivers, all that blood pooling into the lava beds, all that gypsum and ore dust slowly but surely turning all those CCC boys into even worse versions of themselves once they’d developed proper drinking habits to make it all swallow a bit easier. 
