
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/kIeem3xrqDc?si=vOCT-MmNRwZo9lxs" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## IN THE COOL OF THE NIGHT, IN THE WARMTH OF THE BREEZE I’LL BE CRAWLING AROUND ON MY HANDS AND KNEES.
-U2, 1991.

<iframe allow="autoplay *; encrypted-media *; fullscreen *; clipboard-write" frameborder="0" height="450" style="width:100%;max-width:660px;overflow:hidden;border-radius:10px;" sandbox="allow-forms allow-popups allow-same-origin allow-scripts allow-storage-access-by-user-activation allow-top-navigation-by-user-activation" src="https://embed.music.apple.com/us/playlist/points-tv-station/pl.u-kLoLtNYGgL"></iframe>

-------

My parents were playing tennis of all sports at Candy Cane park when the KMVT van pulled up and asked if they could film us for some B-roll they needed for what was at the time the only local TV station within 150 miles from Twin Falls, ID (population: tire). There was an NBC Peacock logo painted on the doors and everything. I was wearing roller skates but I also had a tennis racket; I had both because my parents always wanted me to just fuck off and occupy myself, which is what I very much always did. I was being groomed by someone who was a decent rollerskater, so of course I wanted to be one, too; SKATELAND was a place, after all, where you could hold hands with a girl and skate around a ring of orange traffic cones for East Side West Side with Journey’s “Open Arms” blasting, and because my parents both worked, SKATELAND was a place I even got to go during the daytimes, too, with kids at not only my daycare but the other ones in town, too, who would sometimes coordinate and so these smaller, family-owned daycares would group together and rent out the roller rink at like 10 AM in the morning, when no one in TF is going to be skating anyway unless it’s a Saturday and it’s someone’s birthday party and you’re lucky enough their parents booked Skateland’s Party Room for your party and everything.

Which mine did. They really really did. In 1982, I think, even. Skateland and its video arcade and its carpet and its—yes—sexual tensions for me as a grade schooler were compounded and made even more complicated by the fact that KLD also fancied himself a rollerskater, and he of course was older and better at everything than me. 

Well, almost everything.

Anything physical, he could definitely do better. He is six years older than me and I watched him develop, year to year, hair by hair, from a scrawny weirdo in grade school to an Air Force-ready 18 year old man who’d never dated a single girl until he was “sweet 16” and poor Cara Howard had terrible taste and judgment when it came to the opposite sex but places like BUHL IDAHO just be like that; and but anyway: KLD’s formative sexual experiences buggering his male cousin six years the younger probably didn’t prepare him quite enough for taking on a wife, but that’s what happened anyway and blah blah blah and I wrote an entire Something Other that no fooling almost killed me, so I’m not going into any of that here and nope and fuck that shit some more.

KLD may have been better at everything but I guess I kind of swore that he would never be better than me IN SCHOOL and WITH GIRLS if I could at all help it. I can remember his struggles to read, write, spell, print legibly, talk clearly, not sound like exactly the white trash pedophile stereotype that he would climb into and perform before he was even out of middle school. He was groomed himself by his own father. Neither of us boys had a fucking chance. In a part of the world where there aren’t enough chances for everyone who’s clinging desperately to the lip of the canyon there for whatever commerce and sustenance they can grind out. The Snake River Plain is a high plains desert, nuzzling and tunneling through row upon row of alpine mountains: Bitterroot, Sawtooth, Boise, which of course are all subranges of the mighty Rockies, where we all grew up on less oxygen and in much brighter, burning sunlight than most people on the planet get or have to.

And most certainly, KLD would not best me when it came to matters like this here thing right here you’re reading. Whomever you are. Do you know if your mother’s calling you home just yet? And if not, shouldn’t you just be getting along your way? 

I mean, it’s getting dark. 

And you don’t ever really know what’s going to come out at night now FOR SURE now, do ya? 

I wasn’t dressed for the shots they took. The footage ran as that part TV stations had to declare by federal law, to receive the right to radiate the public airwaves with whatever programming they had either made or licensed to broadcast. The single TV station in the area where I grew up, KMVT, broadcast from Twin Falls. First from the station that was adjacent to Vera C. O’Leary Junior High on Elizabeth Blvd at the corner of Eastland, then to its next and most prominent location on Blue Lakes Blvd because, by god, if there’s going to HAVE TO BE a local TV station in TF just like they have them in Boise, in Salt Lake, in Nampa-Caldwell, well shit, it best be on a fuckin BOULEVARD.

Blue Lakes Blvd was and still is the town’s commercial lifeline because it’s Idaho State Highway 93, which runs north-south. Not east-west. If you have to drive through on your way to Nevada, or, god forbid, live in this little skin tag on the armpit of the world, the town planners made it literally impossible for you to avoid Blue Lakes, which is shorthand in this part of Shoshone Territory as proof that the outside world really does exist. And, most of the time, is simply passing through. TF is on the south side of the Snake River, the receiving end of Evel Knievel’s motorcycle rocketship thing branded all up by Harley-Davidson and everything for an event I know I attended but have only the faintest traces of in my memory, which were instantly polluted by the photographs MFUP would take and get developed and he always got duplicates and he was always very proud of himself and entered pictures in contests and shit and sometimes I got to be in them. One of the first ones he entered was one he took of KLD in the basement of the house in TF where MFUP graduated high school, pouring from one of those glass gallon bottles that you can buy cheaper whiskeys like Black Velvet, which is all that was in my grandparents’ house in their full-stocked bar where, supposedly, only guests, family, and most definitely NOT grandpa OR grandma, and but the Nevada state line is barely an hour’s drive due south on Hwy 93, which is actually Washington Street out here before it juts east to Clinton Drive. 

Nope. Not a drop. I mean, obviously. And, I mean, they said so and grandparents never lie to you inside their own homes when you’re the grandkid now, right?

Right.

That footage of me, it ran as the backdrop footage they ran when they’d list all the rural re-transmitters for KMVT. Spread out all over the Snake River Plain, and not stopping at the state lines. You know, like the earth actually IS, and not some stupid fucking story about who BELONGS. It was crystal clear to me my entire childhood that I didn’t belong where I was in about a bazillion ways. This project couldn’t exist without at least a little bit of that being true. As far as the rest and accuracy, I know what I know from the life that I’ve lived and I’ve been pretty wrong about stuff and especially so when it comes to family loyalties. As in, where they REALLY lie. 

That footage of me, I’m in some terrible, hand me down velour tan shirt. Hand me down jeans. Hand me down skates. Hand me down bruises. Hand me down rug burns. 

Shall I go on? It gets worse. And you know it does. You wouldn’t be reading otherwise.

The details are ready anytime I need or want them, by the way. They always are. Always have been. Always will be. You will not say or do anything that will ever surprise me or that I haven’t already experienced. 

That’s me on the merry go round, skating and sitting, wearing someone else’s skin who was constantly abrading and bruising and even borrowing mine. 

Wear your own fucking skin, KLD. For one fucking time in your whole fucking life.

That kid on the merry go round, he was still spinning there the night I made the biggest mistake of my life some 30 years later. It was dark already because it was pretty much winter already when I marched her out to the curb where I’d stood and waited like a moron only the summer before; but with the new season’s snow, I buried all that and thought it would stay there.

And so I kneeled. 

And I never really stood back up. 

Because it was just the summer before I was rolling a suitcase down El Monte and then across the width of that same park where my parents had played tennis entire liftetimes before that moment I didn’t know what else to do but grab my suitcase from the foot of her bed and get away as fast as I could. I sat on the bench that day just like I sat on the old one that wasn’t there anymore so long ago when the KMVT van parked in the same spot my parents would roll to a slow stop, that Mercedes PLARD bought on the downlow from his boss at the greenhouses, bought it for MMAB because, of course, you wouldn’t ever want to buy something like THAT brand new, you know. I’d called them because there was literally nothing else I could do. This was before Uber, but who the fuck would have picked me up there, anyway? Talk about zero stars. 

I remember slinking down into the back seat after thunking my suitcase into the trunk. Neither of them got out, either. MFUP was driving. MMAB in the passenger. I’d called them all the way across that bridge and made them drive Blue Lakes to fetch me, like I was still in junior high and I needed picked up early from the dance because my date had dumped me for Tony WhatshisFace from Valley or Minico or Jerome or Glenns Ferry or Buhl or—nahhhhh—Borah or maybe Capitol in Boise. I could tell instantly MFUP wasn’t pleased to be there. My car was at their place and W had dropped a massive bomb on me at her house while day-dosing Valium or whatever it was she’d scripted for herself because she was, after all, the one who did order all those prescription pads, pre-sterilized equipment, and Vitamin B-12 shots. She hadn’t lost the business just yet; that would still take about another year, and when she did, there wasn’t a single discussion past would I feel “ashamed” of her for giving up on whatever dream/story/fiction she’d conjured and convinced her father to help manifest. 

I remember MFUP’s metal-rimmed sunglasses in the rearview mirror. He wouldn’t look at me while he drove; he wanted it to be clear that he wasn’t participating in any more of my bullshit than he could help, and tonight he was being magnanimous. Truth be told, he’d probably just cracked the 10th or 11th silver can on the afternoon, so when my call came in and he was already most sheets to the constant wind, I’d pleaded with my mom to come kiss my boo-boos because the crazy affair I’d started finally collapsed and Who Could Have Ever Seen That Coming? That was most certainly what he was saying when my mom was telling him I was calling with something that needed immediate attention. I don’t know why she made him bring her, honestly. I didn’t need or want them both to come. Because I never did. They were largely miserable when they spent any real amount of time together, and here they were in the front seat of their own car, fetching their 37-year old dipsit only son who thinks his college education and college debt makes him smarter than debt itself. 

Which he isn’t. 

Nor does he think he is.

I know this because that’s me I’m talking about and I’m doing the best I can to be as honest as I can. There’s a difference between the truth and honesty, and this really isn’t about semantics at all. I’m not interested in the definitions of things. Not anymore. And certainly not more than any one else.

---------
## BOLTS FROM ABOVE HIT THE PEOPLE DOWN BELOW. PEOPLE IN THIS WORLD WE HAVE NO PLACE TO GO.
-NEW ORDER, 1987.
-----------

SEPTEMBER 9 2025.

Seriously, though: I've been on the Oregon Trail my entire fucking life. Forever I've been on it, one way or another. In 6th grade I was studying it in school and writing my first original short stories and longer form essay thingies. When I'd get to middle school, I'd start writing notes to girls my friends and I both liked and we'd compare both our drafts as well as the reactions we got. He was the cute and ostensibly more alpha one, but I played a pretty good Robin to his Batman most of the time and it wouldn't take too long for that dynamic to flip completely once we got to high school and it was clear who was really going to do what and who was really just going to be all talk. 

When I used to write fiction, I would listen for the voices that I knew weren't real and then try to find way to make them so. Now that I've given up writing fiction, it's not just because supposedly true stories have more personal entanglements for us as readers than any other kind of stories because absolutely anything in the world can happen in a true story; fiction is bound by the rules of its own world, and that's always a world that isn't one we REALLY live in.

I was already inventing stories well before I could write them down. Fictional ones about my childhood that was normal and free of any other care than making grades and keeping my parents out of my room like any other 70s kid who grew up on Sugar Smacks and Saturday morning TV whose parents were still nursing their Friday night drunks only behind the always-closed doors of their bedrooms. My parents made me a literal latchkey kid on the first day of my first full day of first grade. So many firsts, really. And lasts. That's what it always felt like to me, anyway, being an only child. And blah blah blah poor me and poor me etc. I know. I live with THAT voice, too. The only difference in my writing now, really, is which voices I listen to most often and just being honest about that. 

Writing fictions was and is an extension of my survivalism that will never not be a big part of who I am. I haven't been actively in danger for at least 40 years now, at least not in the same ways I was constantly in danger when I was a kid; from birth up to and including and even past my 12th birthday, I was the specific target of a specific disease that is not specific to only my family by a lot. I am yet to be surprised or shocked when another fellow survivor trusts me enough with their stories to exorcise some of the demons as well as exercise their real voices. And for a lot my students--I exclusively work with community college students now--this could very well be the first time they ever really hear and see themselves in a page of writing they've created for someone else. 

I think this is what writing instruction does or potentially can do and probably why I "ended up" doing it for a living. I'm much more of a therapist and literal social worker (mandatory reporter, manditorily reporting for mandatory duty...) than I have ever been, but that's kind of what I've sort of always been anyway. 

So yeah, I've been on The Oregon Trail a really long time. Both of my parents' extended families chased Carey Act land giveaways in the early 20th century, specifically in the central and eastern parts of southern Idaho. My paternal grandmother, born Emma Chess, was like most of her siblings, a home birth on a rented farm at the literal edge of the lava beds and old floes that span for miles across the Snake River Plain near current-day Idaho Falls. Emma's father Ben and his wife Clora had 14 children before she shot herself in the face with a revolver bright and early on New Years Eve, 1934, in that same house on Priest Road where Emma and her siblings had all been born and had known nothing of the journey Ben, Clora, and the eldest children (some of which didn't survive the trip or make the acclimation; sudden death for infants and even older children would be shockingly common to someone living now in 2025, I would well imagine) had made west in the late 'teens from Rogerson, Tennessee, where Ben and Clora had been married and lived with his widowed mother Coraline and younger brother Chester (himself married, like big bro Ben, and with a small gaggle of children already, too, also like big bro Ben, too...). The entire Chess clan up and moved from TN to ID and spent a good decade on Priest Road before the avalanche that started NYE 1934 that terrible morning.

I tell you all of this because in the 6th grade, it's like 1983, 1984, something like that, and I'm still getting routinely rolled by my older and only cousin on that entire side of my family. Telling, that, in and of itself, really. And but truly a story told more fuller in/at/on a totally different time/occasion/incident report. I'm in 6th grade and my teacher has identified me as "special" or whatever in that I pay a little more attention than most of her students and that's really about it; I was always good in school because, quite simply, I loved the way it feels TO BE AT SCHOOL more than anything that I have ever singly experienced in/at one. Because being at school meant I wasn't either at home or at one of my grandparents' homes, or at a cabin nearly three hours away, high up in the central mountains of the old busted and rotted out mining country that makes Idaho not just "The Gem State" but, well, makes Idaho IDAHO if you know what I mean.

I'm not at school when I'm working on the Oregon Trail project that got me my first real awards for writing stories down that weren't true. Well, awards that you can actually see your name on and are maybe even printed out on fancy paper and you could even frame and you could even hang on a wall or something, you know, keep it behind glass kind of importance is what I'm getting at or trying to here. I'm at my grandmother's house again on a Friday night for whatever reason I'm at my grandmother's house again on a Friday night. There was a routine if she wasn't working a dinner shift at The Depot Grill about a quarter mile due north from my grandparents' house at 119 Clinton Dr, perpendicular to US Highway 93 which turns in to S Washington at the city limits for Twin Falls. My grandparents moved to Clinton Dr under a lot of duress in the early 1960s and both of them died while still living at the property. Born of the necessity and fury of both The Great Depression as well as classic, 20-20-in-the-rearview-kind of clarity PTSD, my paternal grandparents legally married each other twice in a place and time where not only was a divorce rare but a second one even rarer and one from the same person with yet another one in between? 

Yeah. To say the least, it's complicated. 

And so is this story Emma lays on me. It's heavy, too. I'm working on a fictional diary for a big project due in my 6th grade class that's on The Oregon Trail. Almost every other kid in the class had to write a boring typewritten 3rd person history report that is as terrible and bland as it could possibly sound; most projects were directly traced on onionskin paper with #7 pencils from World Book Encyclopedia entries that were nowhere near electronic and most certainly not online; I'm talking 1983, where personal computers are just beginning to appear under Christmas trees and are largely considered such extravagances. That's how I got my first one--and my cousin, too!--a Tandy ColorComputer that I hooked to a small black and white TV for at least the first couple of years I used it, and having that machine completely changed my life and then charted a course for it I've been on literally ever since, and will be for the rest of my life.

That course WASN'T The Oregon Trail, though. 

And come to think of it now, I wouldn't even *see* the legendary OREGON TRAIL videogame that was exclusively on Apple computers that almost always were on school campuses in the shitty little desert town I grew up on, high above the snarling and swirling Snake River at a junction called Twin Falls that was only made possible by federal land give aways with even more enormous water "reclamation" projects that would see every major river in the state of Idaho receive at least one major dam, no matter what anyone would or could ever think or say about such a thing. Damming a river. The sound of that. Say it out loud, my friend Jonny V always says, and see if it sounds crazy to you. 

Damming a river. Say it out loud.

Sounds crazy, doesn't it? 

--------
## IN TELEVISION DREAMS OF TOMORROW WE'RE NOT THE ONES WHO'RE MEANT TO FOLLOW / FOR THAT'S ENOUGH TO ARGUE.
-GREEN DAY, 2004.
---------

I'm maybe 20 minutes full of Kraft Mac and Cheese that Emma always made with whole milk, whole butter, and every bit of love she could summon from whatever small place in her still felt it. Love, I'm talking about. This was how she showed it. In her cooking and housekeeping. She was excellent at both. The best most ever saw, those who saw. The first sentence of a 2001 frontpage story on their NIMBYism over a--wait for it--proposed county jail annex where they were also photographed while my grandfather leaned on the barbed wire fence he'd built all way back in the 60s to pasture other peoples' animals. Emma and Earl shared the same fact and fate that their fathers were shepherds. Literal ones. Or had spent a good amount of their lives trying to be. With literal animals. 

Shepherds.

And okay here's the story I'm trying to tell you but I have to keep telling other stories in order to get to the place to tell you the one I really wanted to tell you. Which is exactly the way stories are: they aren't completely true any more than they are either complete OR true, if you catch my drift. 

Another way of saying this is: when you can answer an honest question any way you want, why would you ever bother with the truth?

I'm working on my 6th grade project and it's a Friday night and I'm on Clinton Dr and I've got my little project notebook I earmarked for it and I'm on that crazy sliding recliner thing Earl was always asleep in absolutely no later than the second full primetime show at 7:30 on Friday nights. He'd yawn and stretch his big arms and almost fall off that crazy orange chair, an electric vibrating thing Emma'd bought for him as, I'm sure, some sort of spite gift. That chair was something Earl personally promised that I could have when he was done with it; I was the only one who "liked" his new chair when he got it; the first recliner I remember of his ended up at the cabin in Featherville. It was green. My father had a similar one but it was orange and it, too, eventually ended up at the cabin. Lots of things you could say just eventually ended up at the cabin. I'm pretty sure I was always one of them. The cabin was a good 2-3 drive away from Twin Falls, which aint exactly Gotham to begin with. The cabin had modern conveniences but it was still nonetheless just a cabin constructed by the people who would eventually use it, so it completely reflected not only their tastes but their principal cares and concerns. My parents would have spent a good amount of time building that cabin when I was a toddler and already having to dodge (ha! get it??) my older cousin's already predatory advances; from my earliest memories, he is there and our relationship is never not sexual in that entire stretch that goes all all all way back + even beyond our own individual lifetimes.

Because what Emma lays on me that night is a big old fat lie.

Or what Emma lays on me is exactly and precisely what happened.

And neither can be proven.

And neither can be disproven.

Because what Emma says, it started with me asking that honest question. I was doing "research" for my fake journal project by asking Emma about what she knew about her family from Tennessee because that was the only way I could wrap my head around the point of learning about the fucking Oregon Trail in the first place. I'd already learned about Idaho history, I guess. That was in 4th grade. In 5th grade it was some sort of world history because I gave a big fat presentation on King Tut and had like 20 library books out from three different libraries (which just so happened to be the only three libraries in existence). In 6th grade it was "American" history and but so that involved a unit on The Oregon Trail and but so what?

Because what Emma says, it's her answering that question I asked about what happened to her own mom who'd taken the long train ride out from Tennessee that we were pretending was really a covered wagon ride that took months instead of days; it's hard for me to personally understand how revolutionary and truly transformative it must have felt to people on this continent in particular. When the railroad came and literally took you away to some place close enough for you to get to that was still different enough to remind you that the whole world never is and never could be all about you.

Because what Emma says, it's her saying after a maybe/maybe not + too-brief pause before she says that what happened to her mom was a murder committed by one of her siblings' boyfriends who had been at the house when he wasn't supposed to be and then reappeared the next time at the door, late late at night when only an adult would answer, and the next time the boyfriend was at the door he was there with a revolver and but so when Clora opened that door...you get the picture.

But what Emma says, it can't be proven any more than it can be unproven. I know because I tried. After finding The Times-News article's late edition add to page 2 from the New Year's Day issue, 1935, the one that made it crystal clear that MOTHER OF 14 SHOOTS SELF AT HOME, and after filing a Freedom of Information Act request with the Blaine County Sheriff's Department to see what if anything the investigation into her death showed, the answer came back pretty clear that Clora OFFICIALLY died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound from the single shot of a revolver, at approximately 9:30 am. Ben Chess, her husband, was the one attendant and on scene and signed the Death Certificates not only of his wife Clora but would also within the next few months that of his own mother as well; in 1936 he would do it again when his brother Chester died from pneumonia, same as Mom; within the next 10 years he'd do it at least one more time, too, for his son and namesake Ben Jr., aged 15, who died after swallowing a stomach full of gasoline on the family farm that'd moved on to fetch Ben a new wife, direct from TN, instead of the entire family heading back the opposite direction that new stepmom Lucille had come from in the first place. Lucille and Emma clashed terribly from what I understood. Emma made it clear she despised her stepmother but still felt obligated to take care of her when she lived out in the Lazy J mobile home park all way on the opposite side of town, near the canyon rim at Pole Line Road.

What Emma says, it can't be unproven neither. Especially not now. Not with Emma long gone and Clora and Ben Jr and Lucille and Earl and all of them. The weight of history, I guess you'd call it, this feeling of deep unease. It's that same unease everyone gets when there's that thing you can completely feel but just can't ever see or hear or taste. Definitely not smell. Most definitely can't smell it, that weight. Weight has no smell. Weight is almost entirely, unfortunately, FEEL. The problem entirely, really, lies right there.

In the direct opposite corner of that late evening edition that hit doorsteps on NYD 1935, there's an ad for the TF Bank & Trust, which would eventually employ MMAB. It couldn't be more opposite. It's a thank you to the fledgling community of Twin Falls for hosting the bank in the first place and existing long enough for the bank to do the same. It's also a sobering reminder that there are entire families that wake up to incredible new realities, every single day, realities so beyond their control it's nearly criminal. That house on Priest Road on NYD 1935 had news for the entire valley that mattered but it didn't matter even a second past Ben signing Clora's death certificate and authorizing her to be buried right there in ID where she left the planet but probably didn't want it to be ID, I'm guessing. Clora, she was buried not even 72 hours later and no formal investigation was ever opened into her death; textbook suicide is the official letter on her life because so says The Times-News in a late evening report out of Hailey which isn't exactly Picabo which isn't exactly Carey which isn't exactly anywhere that ever existed or mattered in the fucking first place.

This isn't some stupid episode of a murder porn series or something. This is my actual family I'm talking about here. Which of course means I'm talking about myself again as usual. Audiences of ones and zeroes are homeostatic to me, though. That's one way to say it. Here's another: I could completely give a shit.

It's impossible to conclude no crime was ever committed in this rough history that's at least 4 generations old now and poised to just keep right on scraping by. The Chesses came from TN; The Dodges from UT; none of them ended up owning and operating sheep ranches + maybe that's simply because: none of them were ever any good at protecting their own flocks.